content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/special-claims/convalescence.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Recovery from Surgery or an Immobilizing Disability (Convalescence)
display_title: Convalescence
concurrence: complete
source: http://www.benefits.va.gov/COMPENSATION/claims-special-convalescence.asp
plainlanguage: 10-28-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
order: 4
---

<div class="va-introtext">

Are you recovering from surgery or a disability related to your military service that’s left you unable to move? You may be able to get a temporary 100% disability rating and disability compensation or benefits if you have this kind of immobilizing  disability. Find out if you can get this benefit. 

</div>


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get disability benefits if you’ve had a surgery or other treatment performed at a VA hospital, approved hospital, or outpatient center for a disability related to your military service (called a service-connected disability).

**If you had surgery**, you may be able to get disability benefits if:
  -	The surgery required a recovery time of at least 1 month **or** reports show that the surgery or treatment was for a service-connected disability, **and**
  -	The surgery resulted in severe issues, such as:
      - Surgical wounds that haven’t totally healed
      - Stumps of recent amputations
      - Being unable to move due to being put in splints or casts to help with healing (known as therapeutic immobilizations)
      - Being unable to leave your house (known as house confinement)
      - Being required to use a wheelchair or crutches
 
**If you didn’t have surgery**, you may still be able to get disability benefits if you had 1 or more major joints immobilized by a cast.


<br>

### Who’s covered?

Veterans
</div>

### What kind of disability benefits can I get?

-	Health care
- Added compensation (payments) while you recover
-	A temporary 100% disability rating 

-----

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. [Apply for benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

Recovery time from either a surgery or the immobilization of a joint by a cast without surgery requires a temporary 100% disability rating for a service-connected disability. The temporary 100% rating may continue for 1 to 3 months—depending on your unique case. You may be able to get an extension for up to 3 more months if your case is severe.

**Example:** A Veteran had a left knee injury that resulted in a 30% disability rating. As the knee problem got worse, the Veteran’s VA doctor recommended surgery to stop further damage. Since the success of the surgery wouldn’t be known for 3 months after the Veteran’s 1-week stay in the hospital, we granted the Veteran a temporary 100% disability rating for 3 months.

Commit message:

Content/WIP/Disability meta tags (#7370)
* added meta tags to 20 files

content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/special-claims/convalescence.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Recovery from Surgery or an Immobilizing Disability (Convalescence)
display_title: Convalescence
description: Find out if you can get a temporary 100% disability rating and VA convalescence pay (sometimes called "back pay") because of a surgery or service-connected disability that's left you unable to move. 
concurrence: complete
source: http://www.benefits.va.gov/COMPENSATION/claims-special-convalescence.asp
plainlanguage: 10-28-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
order: 4
---

<div class="va-introtext">

Are you recovering from surgery or a disability related to your military service that’s left you unable to move? You may be able to get a temporary 100% disability rating and disability compensation or benefits if you have this kind of immobilizing  disability. Find out if you can get this benefit. 

</div>


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get disability benefits if you’ve had a surgery or other treatment performed at a VA hospital, approved hospital, or outpatient center for a disability related to your military service (called a service-connected disability).

**If you had surgery**, you may be able to get disability benefits if:
  -	The surgery required a recovery time of at least 1 month **or** reports show that the surgery or treatment was for a service-connected disability, **and**
  -	The surgery resulted in severe issues, such as:
      - Surgical wounds that haven’t totally healed
      - Stumps of recent amputations
      - Being unable to move due to being put in splints or casts to help with healing (known as therapeutic immobilizations)
      - Being unable to leave your house (known as house confinement)
      - Being required to use a wheelchair or crutches
 
**If you didn’t have surgery**, you may still be able to get disability benefits if you had 1 or more major joints immobilized by a cast.


<br>

### Who’s covered?

Veterans
</div>

### What kind of disability benefits can I get?

-	Health care
- Added compensation (payments) while you recover
-	A temporary 100% disability rating 

-----

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. [Apply for benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

Recovery time from either a surgery or the immobilization of a joint by a cast without surgery requires a temporary 100% disability rating for a service-connected disability. The temporary 100% rating may continue for 1 to 3 months—depending on your unique case. You may be able to get an extension for up to 3 more months if your case is severe.

**Example:** A Veteran had a left knee injury that resulted in a 30% disability rating. As the knee problem got worse, the Veteran’s VA doctor recommended surgery to stop further damage. Since the success of the surgery wouldn’t be known for 3 months after the Veteran’s 1-week stay in the hospital, we granted the Veteran a temporary 100% disability rating for 3 months.
