content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/special-claims/individual-unemployability.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Being Unable to Work (Individual Unemployability)
display_title: Individual Unemployability
concurrence: complete
source: http://www.benefits.va.gov/COMPENSATION/claims-special-individual_unemployability.asp
plainlanguage: 11-2-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
order: 7
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you can’t work because of a disability related to your service in the military (a service-connected disability), you may qualify for what’s called individual unemployability. This means you may be able to get disability compensation or benefits at the same level as a Veteran who has a 100% disability rating.

</div>


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get disability benefits if:

  - You have at least 1 service-connected disability rated at 60% or more disabling, or 2 or more service-connected disabilities—with at least 1 rated at 40% or more disabling and a combined rating of 70% or more—**and**
  - You can’t hold down a steady job that supports you financially (known as substantially gainful employment) because of your service-connected disability. Odd jobs (marginal employment), don’t count.

**Note:** In certain cases—for example, if you need to be in the hospital often—you may qualify at a lower disability rating.

<br>

### Who’s covered?
Veterans
</div>

### What kind of benefits can I get?

- Health care
- Compensation (payments)

-----

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. When you apply, you’ll have to provide evidence (supporting documents like a doctor’s report or medical test results) showing that your disability prevents you from holding down a steady job. We’ll also review your work and education history. [Apply for benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

**Example:** A Veteran has a service-connected heart condition and a 60% disability rating. She was still able to work until last year when she began to get chest pain when doing anything physical, like walking or lifting boxes. Her doctor told her to retire as soon as possible. She filed a claim for more disability compensation. We reviewed her work and education history and agreed that she was individually unemployable due to her service-connected disability. So we increased her disability compensation to the same rate as a 100% disabled Veteran.

Commit message:

Content/WIP/Disability meta tags (#7370)
* added meta tags to 20 files

content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/special-claims/individual-unemployability.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Being Unable to Work (Individual Unemployability)
display_title: Individual Unemployability
description: Find out if you can get VA disability compensation because of a service-connected disability that's left you unable to work (called "individual unemployability"). 
concurrence: complete
source: http://www.benefits.va.gov/COMPENSATION/claims-special-individual_unemployability.asp
plainlanguage: 11-2-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
order: 7
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you can’t work because of a disability related to your service in the military (a service-connected disability), you may qualify for what’s called individual unemployability. This means you may be able to get disability compensation or benefits at the same level as a Veteran who has a 100% disability rating.

</div>


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get disability benefits if:

  - You have at least 1 service-connected disability rated at 60% or more disabling, or 2 or more service-connected disabilities—with at least 1 rated at 40% or more disabling and a combined rating of 70% or more—**and**
  - You can’t hold down a steady job that supports you financially (known as substantially gainful employment) because of your service-connected disability. Odd jobs (marginal employment), don’t count.

**Note:** In certain cases—for example, if you need to be in the hospital often—you may qualify at a lower disability rating.

<br>

### Who’s covered?
Veterans
</div>

### What kind of benefits can I get?

- Health care
- Compensation (payments)

-----

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. When you apply, you’ll have to provide evidence (supporting documents like a doctor’s report or medical test results) showing that your disability prevents you from holding down a steady job. We’ll also review your work and education history. [Apply for benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

**Example:** A Veteran has a service-connected heart condition and a 60% disability rating. She was still able to work until last year when she began to get chest pain when doing anything physical, like walking or lifting boxes. Her doctor told her to retire as soon as possible. She filed a claim for more disability compensation. We reviewed her work and education history and agreed that she was individually unemployable due to her service-connected disability. So we increased her disability compensation to the same rate as a 100% disabled Veteran.
