content/pages/health-care/about-va-health-care/your-care-team.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Your Care Team
display_title:
concurrence: complete
lastupdate: 2018-01-09
order: 1
relatedlinks:
  - heading: More information about your benefits
    links:
    - url: /health-care/eligibility/
      title: Health Care Benefits Eligibility
      description: Not sure if you qualify? Find out if you can get VA health care benefits.
    - url: /health-care/apply/
      title: Health Care Application Process
      description: Ready to apply? Get started now.
    - url: /health-care/health-conditions/
      title: Health Needs and Conditions
      description: Find out how to access VA services for mental health, women’s health, and other specific needs.
    - url: /disability-benefits/
      title: Disability Benefits
      description: Have an illness or injury that was caused—or made worse—by your active-duty service? Find out if you can get disability compensation (monthly payments) from VA.  
---

<div class="va-introtext">

At VA, we take a team approach to health care—with you at the center. Research shows this kind of approach leads to better quality care, more satisfied patients, and fewer hospital visits. Find out who will care for you when you become part of the VA health care program.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### Who will provide care for me at VA?

After you sign up for VA health care and choose your main VA location, we’ll assign you to a health care team called a Patient Aligned Care Team (or PACT). Your team will be made up of you, those who support you (like your family members and caregivers), and your health care providers.

**Your team will include a:**

- **Primary care provider** (your main doctor, nurse practitioner, or physician’s assistant)
- **Clinical pharmacist** (a pharmacist who works with you and your primary care provider to make sure you’re taking the medicines that are right for you and your overall health)
- **Registered nurse (RN) care manager** (a nurse who makes sure your care is coordinated across all providers and services, and meets your health goals and your plan for care)
- **Licensed practical nurse (LPN) or medical assistant and clerk** (team members who help to support you and the other health care providers on your team)

When you need other services to meet your goals and needs, your team may call other providers—like social workers or specialists—to help with your care.

</div>

### More about your VA care team

**Jump to a section:**

- [How will my health care team work with me](#health-care-team)?
- [Do I get to choose my primary care provider](#choose-primary-care-provider)?
- [How do I schedule an appointment](#appointments)?
- [What happens if my primary care provider leaves VA](#primary-care-provider-leaves)?
- [Can I see a local community care provider, paid for by VA](#non-va-provider)?
- [What kinds of things can a VA social worker help me with](#social-worker)?

<br>

<span id="health-care-team">

#### How will my health care team work with me?

Your team’s goal is to plan for all the care you need to help you stay healthy and well throughout your life.

**Your team will:**

- **Build a partnership with you.** You’ll be an active member of the team, and you’ll work with your team to plan and make decisions to meet your personal health goals. Your team will offer wellness care, education, and lifestyle coaching to help you stay healthy.

- **Provide or arrange for preventive care,** such as immunizations (like flu shots) to prevent illness and screenings to help find diseases like cancer in their earliest stages—when treatment is most likely to be successful.

- **Help you get care in the ways that work best for you.** This may include personal visits with your primary care provider, group clinics, and 24/7 telephone care. You can also get online educational information and secure messaging with your health care team through the My Health***e***Vet portal.<br>
[Visit My Health***e***Vet](https://www.myhealth.va.gov/).

- **Coordinate your care.** Team members will meet often to talk with you—and each other—about your progress and goals. And they’ll coordinate any care you may need from specialists outside the team.

<br>

<span id="choose-primary-care-provider">

#### Do I get to choose my primary care provider?

No. You’ll choose the main VA location where you’d like to get care. We’ll assign you a health care team—including your primary care provider—based on the location you choose.

If you decide you want to change to a different primary care doctor, you’ll need to talk to your health care team leader or to the patient advocate at your VA medical center. <br>
[Find a medical center near you](/facilities/).

<br>

<span id="appointments">

#### How do I schedule an appointment?


You can schedule VA health care appointments by phone or through our online scheduling tool. <br>
[Find out how to schedule VA appointments by phone or online](/health-care/schedule-an-appointment).

<br>

<span id="primary-care-provider-leaves">

#### What happens if my primary care provider leaves VA?

Your health care team will have a plan in place if your primary care provider is away or leaves VA. Your team will make sure you always have access to a qualified primary care provider and that you keep getting the ongoing care you need to continue with your health care plan.

<br>

<span id="non-va-provider">

#### Can I see a local community care provider, paid for by VA?

It depends. If we can't provide the care you need, we may refer you to a community provider. Your eligibility for community care will be based on your specific needs and circumstances. 

**We may refer you to a community provider if any of these is true for you:**
- We can’t provide the services you need, **or**
- We can’t make an appointment for you at the nearest VA medical facility within 30 days of the clinically indicated date (the date you and your VA provider agree should be the next date you’re seen for care)—or, if we can’t determine this date, the date you’d prefer to be seen next, **or**
- You live more than 40 miles (driving distance) from the nearest VA medical facility, **or**
- You have to travel by air, boat, or ferry to get to the nearest VA medical facility, **or**
- You face an excessive burden in traveling to your nearest VA medical facility (like geographic challenges, environmental factors, or a health problem that makes it hard for you to travel)

Your VA provider will work with you to determine if you're eligible. <br>
[Learn more about VA community care](https://www.va.gov/COMMUNITYCARE/index.asp).


<br>

<span id="social-worker">
  
#### What kinds of things can a VA social worker help me with?

Our social workers can help you with many different needs.

**If you're:**

- **In a crisis situation,** your social worker can help counsel you through the crisis. Then, they can help you apply for programs and services through VA and in your community to meet your long-term needs.
- **Homeless, often in the hospital, or unable to care for yourself any longer,** your social worker can work closely with you to help you find the right housing solution and get the ongoing support you need.
- **In the hospital now,** your social worker can help you make plans for when you get discharged.
- **Having trouble speaking up for yourself or feeling overwhelmed by trying to arrange care,** your social worker can act as your voice to make sure your wishes are respected and you get the care you need.
- **Looking for support to help your family understand how to deal with your health needs,** your social worker can educate your family about your condition as well as how to live a more healthy life, deal with stress, and access helpful programs and services.
- **Feeling sad, depressed, anxious, mistreated, or just like something isn't right,** your social worker can offer counseling and can work with you and your health care team to create a treatment plan.

These are just some examples. We can help with almost any need, or connect you with the right person for help.

If you have a question or a problem you need help with, ask your health care team to set up an appointment for you with a VA social worker. Or, ask the staff at your nearest VA health facility to connect you with a local VA social worker. <br>
[Find closest VA health facility](/facilities/?facilityType=health&page=1&zoomLevel=10).

Commit message:

adding link to social work services page

content/pages/health-care/about-va-health-care/your-care-team.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Your Care Team
display_title:
concurrence: complete
lastupdate: 2018-01-09
order: 1
relatedlinks:
  - heading: More information about your benefits
    links:
    - url: /health-care/eligibility/
      title: Health Care Benefits Eligibility
      description: Not sure if you qualify? Find out if you can get VA health care benefits.
    - url: /health-care/apply/
      title: Health Care Application Process
      description: Ready to apply? Get started now.
    - url: /health-care/health-conditions/
      title: Health Needs and Conditions
      description: Find out how to access VA services for mental health, women’s health, and other specific needs.
    - url: /disability-benefits/
      title: Disability Benefits
      description: Have an illness or injury that was caused—or made worse—by your active-duty service? Find out if you can get disability compensation (monthly payments) from VA.  
---

<div class="va-introtext">

At VA, we take a team approach to health care—with you at the center. Research shows this kind of approach leads to better quality care, more satisfied patients, and fewer hospital visits. Find out who will care for you when you become part of the VA health care program.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### Who will provide care for me at VA?

After you sign up for VA health care and choose your main VA location, we’ll assign you to a health care team called a Patient Aligned Care Team (or PACT). Your team will be made up of you, those who support you (like your family members and caregivers), and your health care providers.

**Your team will include a:**

- **Primary care provider** (your main doctor, nurse practitioner, or physician’s assistant)
- **Clinical pharmacist** (a pharmacist who works with you and your primary care provider to make sure you’re taking the medicines that are right for you and your overall health)
- **Registered nurse (RN) care manager** (a nurse who makes sure your care is coordinated across all providers and services, and meets your health goals and your plan for care)
- **Licensed practical nurse (LPN) or medical assistant and clerk** (team members who help to support you and the other health care providers on your team)

When you need other services to meet your goals and needs, your team may call other providers—like social workers or specialists—to help with your care.

</div>

### More about your VA care team

**Jump to a section:**

- [How will my health care team work with me](#health-care-team)?
- [Do I get to choose my primary care provider](#choose-primary-care-provider)?
- [How do I schedule an appointment](#appointments)?
- [What happens if my primary care provider leaves VA](#primary-care-provider-leaves)?
- [Can I see a local community care provider, paid for by VA](#non-va-provider)?
- [What kinds of things can a VA social worker help me with](#social-worker)?

<br>

<span id="health-care-team">

#### How will my health care team work with me?

Your team’s goal is to plan for all the care you need to help you stay healthy and well throughout your life.

**Your team will:**

- **Build a partnership with you.** You’ll be an active member of the team, and you’ll work with your team to plan and make decisions to meet your personal health goals. Your team will offer wellness care, education, and lifestyle coaching to help you stay healthy.

- **Provide or arrange for preventive care,** such as immunizations (like flu shots) to prevent illness and screenings to help find diseases like cancer in their earliest stages—when treatment is most likely to be successful.

- **Help you get care in the ways that work best for you.** This may include personal visits with your primary care provider, group clinics, and 24/7 telephone care. You can also get online educational information and secure messaging with your health care team through the My Health***e***Vet portal.<br>
[Visit My Health***e***Vet](https://www.myhealth.va.gov/).

- **Coordinate your care.** Team members will meet often to talk with you—and each other—about your progress and goals. And they’ll coordinate any care you may need from specialists outside the team.

<br>

<span id="choose-primary-care-provider">

#### Do I get to choose my primary care provider?

No. You’ll choose the main VA location where you’d like to get care. We’ll assign you a health care team—including your primary care provider—based on the location you choose.

If you decide you want to change to a different primary care doctor, you’ll need to talk to your health care team leader or to the patient advocate at your VA medical center. <br>
[Find a medical center near you](/facilities/).

<br>

<span id="appointments">

#### How do I schedule an appointment?


You can schedule VA health care appointments by phone or through our online scheduling tool. <br>
[Find out how to schedule VA appointments by phone or online](/health-care/schedule-an-appointment).

<br>

<span id="primary-care-provider-leaves">

#### What happens if my primary care provider leaves VA?

Your health care team will have a plan in place if your primary care provider is away or leaves VA. Your team will make sure you always have access to a qualified primary care provider and that you keep getting the ongoing care you need to continue with your health care plan.

<br>

<span id="non-va-provider">

#### Can I see a local community care provider, paid for by VA?

It depends. If we can't provide the care you need, we may refer you to a community provider. Your eligibility for community care will be based on your specific needs and circumstances. 

**We may refer you to a community provider if any of these is true for you:**
- We can’t provide the services you need, **or**
- We can’t make an appointment for you at the nearest VA medical facility within 30 days of the clinically indicated date (the date you and your VA provider agree should be the next date you’re seen for care)—or, if we can’t determine this date, the date you’d prefer to be seen next, **or**
- You live more than 40 miles (driving distance) from the nearest VA medical facility, **or**
- You have to travel by air, boat, or ferry to get to the nearest VA medical facility, **or**
- You face an excessive burden in traveling to your nearest VA medical facility (like geographic challenges, environmental factors, or a health problem that makes it hard for you to travel)

Your VA provider will work with you to determine if you're eligible. <br>
[Learn more about VA community care](https://www.va.gov/COMMUNITYCARE/index.asp).


<br>

<span id="social-worker">
  
#### What kinds of things can a VA social worker help me with?

Our social workers can help you with many different needs.

**If you're:**

- **In a crisis situation,** your social worker can help counsel you through the crisis. Then, they can help you apply for programs and services through VA and in your community to meet your long-term needs.
- **Homeless, often in the hospital, or unable to care for yourself any longer,** your social worker can work closely with you to help you find the right housing solution and get the ongoing support you need.
- **In the hospital now,** your social worker can help you make plans for when you get discharged.
- **Having trouble speaking up for yourself or feeling overwhelmed by trying to arrange care,** your social worker can act as your voice to make sure your wishes are respected and you get the care you need.
- **Looking for support to help your family understand how to deal with your health needs,** your social worker can educate your family about your condition as well as how to help you live a more healthy life, deal with stress, and access helpful programs and services.
- **Feeling sad, depressed, anxious, mistreated, or just like something isn't right,** your social worker can offer counseling and can work with you and your health care team to create a treatment plan.

These are just some examples. We can help with almost any need, or connect you with the right person for help.

If you have a question or a problem you need help with, ask your health care team to set up an appointment for you with a VA social worker. Or, ask the staff at your nearest VA health facility to connect you with a local VA social worker. <br>
[Find closest VA health facility](/facilities/?facilityType=health&page=1&zoomLevel=10).<br>
[Find out what to expect when you work with a social worker](/social-work-services/#working).
