content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Contact with Harmful Chemicals or Other Hazardous Materials
display_title: Contact with Hazardous Materials
plainlanguage: 10-24-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
order: 1
children: disabilityConditionsExposure
majorlinks:
  - heading:
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/
      title: Agent Orange
      description: If you served in or near Vietnam during the Vietnam Era—or in certain related jobs—you may have had contact with Agent Orange and other toxic chemicals used to clear plants and trees during the war.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/asbestos/
      title: Asbestos
      description: If you worked in certain military jobs, you may have had contact with asbestos (toxic fibers once used in many buildings and products).
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/birth-defects/
      title: Birth Defects like Spina Bifida
      description: If you served in South Vietnam or the Republic of Korea during certain time periods, you may have had contact with chemicals like Agent Orange believed to cause birth defects in the children of Veterans.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/mustard-gas/
      title: Contact with Mustard Gas or Lewisite
      description: If you served at the German bombing of Bari, Italy, in World War II or worked in certain other jobs, you may have had contact with mustard gas.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/contaminated-drinking-water-at-camp-lejeune/
      title: Contaminated Drinking Water at Camp Lejeune
      description: If you served at Camp Lejeune or MCAS New River between August 1953 and December 1987, you may be at risk for certain illnesses believed to be caused by contaminants found in the drinking water during that time.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/gulf-war-illness/
      title: Gulf War Illness
      description: If you served in the Southwest Asia theater of operations, you may be at risk of certain illnesses or other conditions linked to this region.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/gulf-war-illness-from-service-in-afghanistan/
      title: Gulf War Illness in Afghanistan
      description: If you served in Afghanistan, you may be at risk of certain illnesses or other conditions linked to this region.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/project112-SHAD/
      title: Project 112/SHAD
      description: If you were part warfare testing for Projects 112 or Shipboard Hazard and Defense (SHAD) from 1962 to 1974, you may be at risk of illnesses believed to be caused by chemical testing.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/radiation-exposure/
      title: Radiation Exposure
      description: If you served in the post-WWII occupation of Hiroshima or Nagasaki, were imprisoned in Japan, worked with or near nuclear weapons testing, or served at a gaseous diffusion plant or in certain other jobs, you may be at risk for illnesses believed to be caused by radiation.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/specific-environmental-hazards/
      title: Specific Environmental Hazards
      description: If you served in Iraq, Afghanistan, Djibouti, or near Atsugi, Japan, you may have had contact with toxic chemicals in the air, water, or soil.
---

<div class="va-introtext">

Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits for illnesses or other conditions, like the ones listed below, believed to be caused by contact with harmful chemicals or other hazardous materials while serving in the military.

</div>

Commit message:

Content/WIP/Disability meta tags (#7370)
* added meta tags to 20 files

content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Contact with Harmful Chemicals or Other Hazardous Materials
display_title: Contact with Hazardous Materials
description: Find out if you can get VA disability compensation for conditions believed to be caused by contact with environmental hazards while serving in the military.
plainlanguage: 10-24-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
order: 1
children: disabilityConditionsExposure
majorlinks:
  - heading:
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/
      title: Agent Orange
      description: If you served in or near Vietnam during the Vietnam Era—or in certain related jobs—you may have had contact with Agent Orange and other toxic chemicals used to clear plants and trees during the war.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/asbestos/
      title: Asbestos
      description: If you worked in certain military jobs, you may have had contact with asbestos (toxic fibers once used in many buildings and products).
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/birth-defects/
      title: Birth Defects like Spina Bifida
      description: If you served in South Vietnam or the Republic of Korea during certain time periods, you may have had contact with chemicals like Agent Orange believed to cause birth defects in the children of Veterans.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/mustard-gas/
      title: Contact with Mustard Gas or Lewisite
      description: If you served at the German bombing of Bari, Italy, in World War II or worked in certain other jobs, you may have had contact with mustard gas.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/contaminated-drinking-water-at-camp-lejeune/
      title: Contaminated Drinking Water at Camp Lejeune
      description: If you served at Camp Lejeune or MCAS New River between August 1953 and December 1987, you may be at risk for certain illnesses believed to be caused by contaminants found in the drinking water during that time.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/gulf-war-illness/
      title: Gulf War Illness
      description: If you served in the Southwest Asia theater of operations, you may be at risk of certain illnesses or other conditions linked to this region.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/gulf-war-illness-from-service-in-afghanistan/
      title: Gulf War Illness in Afghanistan
      description: If you served in Afghanistan, you may be at risk of certain illnesses or other conditions linked to this region.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/project112-SHAD/
      title: Project 112/SHAD
      description: If you were part warfare testing for Projects 112 or Shipboard Hazard and Defense (SHAD) from 1962 to 1974, you may be at risk of illnesses believed to be caused by chemical testing.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/radiation-exposure/
      title: Radiation Exposure
      description: If you served in the post-WWII occupation of Hiroshima or Nagasaki, were imprisoned in Japan, worked with or near nuclear weapons testing, or served at a gaseous diffusion plant or in certain other jobs, you may be at risk for illnesses believed to be caused by radiation.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/specific-environmental-hazards/
      title: Specific Environmental Hazards
      description: If you served in Iraq, Afghanistan, Djibouti, or near Atsugi, Japan, you may have had contact with toxic chemicals in the air, water, or soil.
---

<div class="va-introtext">

Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits for illnesses or other conditions, like the ones listed below, believed to be caused by contact with harmful chemicals or other hazardous materials while serving in the military.

</div>
