content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/ptsd.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)
display_title: PTSD
concurrence: complete
source: http://www.va.gov/opa/issues/ptsd.asp
plainlanguage: 11-14-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Language Act
template: detail-page
order: 1
---

### Are you in crisis? You have options.

- Call the Veterans Crisis Line at <a href="tel:+8002738255">1-800-273-8255</a> and press 1 to talk to someone now.
- [Get private support online with the confidential Veterans Chat](https://www.veteranscrisisline.net/ChatTermsOfService.aspx?account=Veterans%20Chat/).
- Text 838255 to get help right away.
- Call 911.
- Go to the nearest emergency room.

Get more information and resources on the Veterans Crisis Line website. [Visit the Veterans Crisis Line website](https://www.veteranscrisisline.net/Default.aspx).


#### Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) Basics

Posttraumatic stress can happen after someone goes through a traumatic event such as combat, an assault, or a disaster. Most people have some stress reactions following trauma. But if the reactions don’t go away over time or they disrupt your life, you may have PTSD. [Learn more about PTSD](https://www.ptsd.va.gov/public/index.asp).

You may be able to get disability compensation or benefits if you have symptoms of PTSD and while serving in the military you: 
- Suffered a serious injury, personal or sexual trauma, or sexual violation, **or** 
- Were threatened with injury, sexual assault, or death


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

<span id="ptsd-disability-eligibility"></span>

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get disability benefits if you have symptoms related to a traumatic event (the “stressor”) or your experience with the stressor is related to the PTSD symptoms and:
- The stressor happened during your service, **and**
- You can’t function as well as you once could because of your symptoms, **and**
- A doctor has diagnosed you with PTSD

<br>

### Who’s covered?

Veterans
</div>

### What kind of disability benefits can I get?

- Health care
- Compensation (payments)
- Treatment for PTSD

--------

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. [Apply for disability benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

Please note that the screening process for disability benefits is geared toward getting a full understanding of your PTSD, not treating it. To get help or treatment, contact your health care provider or any of the emergency contacts listed at the top of this page. 

### Get more information 
We’ve made great progress in treating PTSD and have brought more mental health providers to VA medical centers to help give the best care to Veterans with PTSD. [Learn about our PTSD programs](https://www.mentalhealth.va.gov/PTSD.asp).

Commit message:

Content/WIP/Disability meta tags (#7370)
* added meta tags to 20 files

content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/ptsd.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)
display_title: PTSD
description: Find out if you can get VA disability benefits for posttraumatic stress disorder, or PTSD, if you suffered a traumatic event while in the military. 
concurrence: complete
source: http://www.va.gov/opa/issues/ptsd.asp
plainlanguage: 11-14-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Language Act
template: detail-page
order: 1
---

### Are you in crisis? You have options.

- Call the Veterans Crisis Line at <a href="tel:+8002738255">1-800-273-8255</a> and press 1 to talk to someone now.
- [Get private support online with the confidential Veterans Chat](https://www.veteranscrisisline.net/ChatTermsOfService.aspx?account=Veterans%20Chat/).
- Text 838255 to get help right away.
- Call 911.
- Go to the nearest emergency room.

Get more information and resources on the Veterans Crisis Line website. [Visit the Veterans Crisis Line website](https://www.veteranscrisisline.net/Default.aspx).


#### Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) Basics

Posttraumatic stress can happen after someone goes through a traumatic event such as combat, an assault, or a disaster. Most people have some stress reactions following trauma. But if the reactions don’t go away over time or they disrupt your life, you may have PTSD. [Learn more about PTSD](https://www.ptsd.va.gov/public/index.asp).

You may be able to get disability compensation or benefits if you have symptoms of PTSD and while serving in the military you: 
- Suffered a serious injury, personal or sexual trauma, or sexual violation, **or** 
- Were threatened with injury, sexual assault, or death


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

<span id="ptsd-disability-eligibility"></span>

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get disability benefits if you have symptoms related to a traumatic event (the “stressor”) or your experience with the stressor is related to the PTSD symptoms and:
- The stressor happened during your service, **and**
- You can’t function as well as you once could because of your symptoms, **and**
- A doctor has diagnosed you with PTSD

<br>

### Who’s covered?

Veterans
</div>

### What kind of disability benefits can I get?

- Health care
- Compensation (payments)
- Treatment for PTSD

--------

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. [Apply for disability benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

Please note that the screening process for disability benefits is geared toward getting a full understanding of your PTSD, not treating it. To get help or treatment, contact your health care provider or any of the emergency contacts listed at the top of this page. 

### Get more information 
We’ve made great progress in treating PTSD and have brought more mental health providers to VA medical centers to help give the best care to Veterans with PTSD. [Learn about our PTSD programs](https://www.mentalhealth.va.gov/PTSD.asp).
