content/pages/burials-and-memorials/pre-need.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Pre-need Eligibility Determination for Burial in a VA National Cemetery
display_title: Pre-need Eligibility Determination
collection: burials
children: burialsPreNeed
order: 2
majorlinks:
  - heading:
    links:
    - url:
      title:
      description:
relatedlinks:
  - heading:
    links:
    - url:
      title:
      description:
---

<div class="va-introtext">

You can apply to find out in advance if you can be buried in a VA national cemetery. This is called a pre-need determination of eligibility—and it can help make the burial planning process easier for your family members in the event of your death. Follow the steps below to apply.

</div>

**Please note:** "Pre-need" means before death. This application is for planning for your own burial in advance. Please don't complete this form if you're requesting burial for someone who has already died. <br>
[Find out how to plan a burial for someone who has died](/burials-and-memorials/burial-planning/).

<br>

### Prepare

<ol class="process">
<li class="process-step list-one">

#### Make sure one of these describes you:
- A Servicemember on active duty, **or**
- A Veteran who was discharged from the military under conditions other than dishonorable, **or**
- The spouse or dependent child of a Servicemember or Veteran, even if the Servicemember or Veteran died first, **or**
- In some cases, the adult dependent child of a Servicemember or Veteran (if you aren’t married)

</li>

<li class="process-step list-two">

#### Choose the VA national cemetery where you’d prefer to be buried. <br>
[Find a VA national cemetery](/facilities/).

**Please note:**

- **This application is only for national cemeteries.** If you'd like to be buried in a state or tribal Veterans cemetery, check the site you want ahead of time. Some state Veterans cemeteries require that you live in that state or have other rules around eligibility. <br>
[Find a state Veterans cemetery](https://www.cem.va.gov/cem/cems/listcem.asp).

- **This application doesn’t apply to Arlington National Cemetery or the United States Soldiers and Airmen's Home National Cemetery.** If you'd like to be buried in either of these Department of the Army cemeteries, please call <a href="tel:+18779078585">1-877-907-8585</a>, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>), and Saturday, 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>).

- **Getting a pre-need determination of eligibility doesn’t guarantee you’ll be buried in a specific VA national cemetery.** We ask you where you'd preferred to be buried so we can try to help fulfill your final wishes. But, after your death, when we receive a request for burial from the person handling your burial arrangements, we'll assign a gravesite in a cemetery with available space.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-three">

#### Gather the supporting documents and information you’ll need to fill out the application.

Please see the list below. If you don’t have everything on the list, you can still apply and we'll help by finding the supporting documents we need. Just keep in mind that the more information you can give us when you apply, the faster we can review your application and give you a decision.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-four">

#### Be sure to fill out an application for each person requesting a pre-need eligibility determination.

If both you and your spouse are applying, you’ll each need to fill out your own application.

</li>
</ol>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### What documents and information do I need to apply?

We base our decision of whether or not you qualify for burial in a VA national cemetery on your service history—or the service history of the Servicemember or Veteran who's sponsoring your application for burial as a spouse, surviving spouse, or unmarried adult child.

To apply, you’ll need your (or your sponsor's):

- Social Security number
- Date and place of birth
- Military status and service history (like service dates, discharge character, and rank—commonly found on the DD214 or other separation documents)
- Discharge papers (DD214 or other separation documents)

<br>

#### More information needed for certain applicants

- **If you’re applying as a spouse, surviving spouse, or unmarried adult child**, you’ll also need your personal information, including your Social Security number.
- **If you're applying on behalf of someone else**, you'll also need supporting documents showing you have the authority to apply for that person.
- **If you're applying for an unmarried adult child of a Servicemember or Veteran**, you'll also need to provide supporting documents with information about the child's disability.

<br>

</div>

### What if I need help filling out my application forms?

Call our toll-free hotline at 1-877-222-VETS (<a href="tel:+18772228387">1-877-222-8387</a>), Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>).

Get help from an accredited representative (a trained professional trusted to help with VA-related claims). <br>
[Get help filing your claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).


[Find your state’s Veterans agency](https://www.va.gov/statedva.htm).

<div markdown="0"><br></div>

### Ready to apply?

Fill out an Application for Pre-need Determination of Eligibility for Burial in a VA National Cemetery (VA Form 40-10007). <br>
[Download VA Form 40-10007](https://www.va.gov/vaforms/va/pdf/VA40-10007.pdf).

Print the form, fill it out, and send it to us along with copies of your supporting documents in 1 of 2 ways:

#### By mail to:

<p class="va-address-block">
	    National Cemetery Scheduling Office<br>
	    PO Box 510543<br>
	    St. Louis, MO 63151<br>
</p>

**Please note:** Don't send us the originals of your DD214 and other supporting documents. Send copies only.


#### By fax to 1-855-840-8299.

<br>

### What happens after I apply?

[Find out what happens after you apply for a pre-need eligibility determination](/burials-and-memorials/pre-need/after-you-apply/).

**Note:** We’ve received a large number of pre-need eligibility applications, and it’s slowing down our approval process. We’ll let you know when we’ve received your application and how long we think it’ll take to make a decision. We’re sorry for the delay.

For more information, you can call 1-877-222-VETS (<a href="tel:+18772228387">1-877-222-8387</a>), Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>). Please wait to hear back about your application rather than applying again.


<div markdown="0"><br></div>

Commit message:

Changing "other than dishonorable" language (#7699)
* Changing "other than dishonorable" language

* Other than dishonorable > without a dishonorable

* "Other than dishonorable" > "wasn't dishonorable"

* other than dishonorable > Didn't receive a

* other than dishonorable > didn't receive a

* Other than dishonorable > Didn't receive a

* other than dishonorable > didn't receive a

* other than dishonorable > didn't receive a

* pre-need "other than dishonorable" language

* register your business - other than dishonorable

* s-dvi - removed parentheses around "dishonorable"

* Camp Lejeune water - other than dishonorable

* what happens after rating-other than dishonorable

* ME review: education-career-counseling

* ME review: pre-need

* ME review: life ins s-dvi

* ME review: disability-conditions-camp-lejeune

* proofread fix

* proofread fix

content/pages/burials-and-memorials/pre-need.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Pre-need Eligibility Determination for Burial in a VA National Cemetery
display_title: Pre-need Eligibility Determination
collection: burials
children: burialsPreNeed
order: 2
majorlinks:
  - heading:
    links:
    - url:
      title:
      description:
relatedlinks:
  - heading:
    links:
    - url:
      title:
      description:
---

<div class="va-introtext">

You can apply to find out in advance if you can be buried in a VA national cemetery. This is called a pre-need determination of eligibility—and it can help make the burial planning process easier for your family members in the event of your death. Follow the steps below to apply.

</div>

**Please note:** "Pre-need" means before death. This application is for planning for your own burial in advance. Please don't complete this form if you're requesting burial for someone who has already died. <br>
[Find out how to plan a burial for someone who has died](/burials-and-memorials/burial-planning/).

<br>

### Prepare

<ol class="process">
<li class="process-step list-one">

#### Make sure one of these describes you:
- A Servicemember on active duty, **or**
- A Veteran who didn't receive a dishonorable discharge when you separated from the military, **or**
- The spouse or dependent child of a Servicemember or Veteran, even if the Servicemember or Veteran died first, **or**
- In some cases, the adult dependent child of a Servicemember or Veteran (if you aren’t married)

</li>

<li class="process-step list-two">

#### Choose the VA national cemetery where you’d prefer to be buried. <br>
[Find a VA national cemetery](/facilities/).

**Please note:**

- **This application is only for national cemeteries.** If you'd like to be buried in a state or tribal Veterans cemetery, check the site you want ahead of time. Some state Veterans cemeteries require that you live in that state or have other rules around eligibility. <br>
[Find a state Veterans cemetery](https://www.cem.va.gov/cem/cems/listcem.asp).

- **This application doesn’t apply to Arlington National Cemetery or the United States Soldiers and Airmen's Home National Cemetery.** If you'd like to be buried in either of these Department of the Army cemeteries, please call <a href="tel:+18779078585">1-877-907-8585</a>, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>), and Saturday, 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>).

- **Getting a pre-need determination of eligibility doesn’t guarantee you’ll be buried in a specific VA national cemetery.** We ask you where you'd preferred to be buried so we can try to help fulfill your final wishes. But, after your death, when we receive a request for burial from the person handling your burial arrangements, we'll assign a gravesite in a cemetery with available space.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-three">

#### Gather the supporting documents and information you’ll need to fill out the application.

Please see the list below. If you don’t have everything on the list, you can still apply and we'll help by finding the supporting documents we need. Just keep in mind that the more information you can give us when you apply, the faster we can review your application and give you a decision.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-four">

#### Be sure to fill out an application for each person requesting a pre-need eligibility determination.

If both you and your spouse are applying, you’ll each need to fill out your own application.

</li>
</ol>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### What documents and information do I need to apply?

We base our decision of whether or not you qualify for burial in a VA national cemetery on your service history—or the service history of the Servicemember or Veteran who's sponsoring your application for burial as a spouse, surviving spouse, or unmarried adult child.

To apply, you’ll need your (or your sponsor's):

- Social Security number
- Date and place of birth
- Military status and service history (like service dates, discharge character, and rank—commonly found on the DD214 or other separation documents)
- Discharge papers (DD214 or other separation documents)

<br>

#### More information needed for certain applicants

- **If you’re applying as a spouse, surviving spouse, or unmarried adult child**, you’ll also need your personal information, including your Social Security number.
- **If you're applying on behalf of someone else**, you'll also need supporting documents showing you have the authority to apply for that person.
- **If you're applying for an unmarried adult child of a Servicemember or Veteran**, you'll also need to provide supporting documents with information about the child's disability.

<br>

</div>

### What if I need help filling out my application forms?

Call our toll-free hotline at 1-877-222-VETS (<a href="tel:+18772228387">1-877-222-8387</a>), Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>).

Get help from an accredited representative (a trained professional trusted to help with VA-related claims). <br>
[Get help filing your claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).


[Find your state’s Veterans agency](https://www.va.gov/statedva.htm).

<div markdown="0"><br></div>

### Ready to apply?

Fill out an Application for Pre-need Determination of Eligibility for Burial in a VA National Cemetery (VA Form 40-10007). <br>
[Download VA Form 40-10007](https://www.va.gov/vaforms/va/pdf/VA40-10007.pdf).

Print the form, fill it out, and send it to us along with copies of your supporting documents in 1 of 2 ways:

#### By mail to:

<p class="va-address-block">
	    National Cemetery Scheduling Office<br>
	    PO Box 510543<br>
	    St. Louis, MO 63151<br>
</p>

**Please note:** Don't send us the originals of your DD214 and other supporting documents. Send copies only.


#### By fax to 1-855-840-8299.

<br>

### What happens after I apply?

[Find out what happens after you apply for a pre-need eligibility determination](/burials-and-memorials/pre-need/after-you-apply/).

**Note:** We’ve received a large number of pre-need eligibility applications, and it’s slowing down our approval process. We’ll let you know when we’ve received your application and how long we think it’ll take to make a decision. We’re sorry for the delay.

For more information, you can call 1-877-222-VETS (<a href="tel:+18772228387">1-877-222-8387</a>), Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>). Please wait to hear back about your application rather than applying again.


<div markdown="0"><br></div>
