content/pages/families-caregivers/index.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Family Member and Caregiver Benefits
permalink: /family-and-caregiver-benefits/index.md
template: level2-index
showactionbar: false

---

<div class="va-introtext">

As the family member of a Servicemember or Veteran, you may qualify for certain benefits, like health care, VA-backed home loans, life insurance, or money to help pay for college. If you’re a caregiver for a Veteran with disabilities, you may also qualify for support to help you better care for the Veteran—and for yourself. Find out which benefits you may qualify for and how to access them.

</div>

**Jump to a section:**

- [Health Care Benefits](#health-care)
- [Education Benefits](#education-benefits)
- [Careers and Employment](#careers)
- [Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)](#voc-rehab)
- [Survivors Pension](#survivors-pension)
- [Burials and Memorials](#burials)
- [Housing Assistance](#housing-assistance)
- [Caregiver Support](#caregiver-support)

<br>

<span id="health-care">

### Health Care Benefits
If you’re the spouse, surviving spouse, dependent child, or family caregiver of a Servicemember or Veteran, you may qualify for health care benefits through VA or through the Department of Defense. In certain cases, you may also qualify for health care benefits due to a disability related to your Veteran’s service. <br>
[Learn more about health care benefits for family members and caregivers](/health-care/family-caregiver-health-benefits/).

**Looking for other health care or disability insurance information on behalf of a Servicemember or Veteran?**<br>
- [Learn about health care benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans](/health-care/). <br>
- [Learn about disability benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans](/disability-benefits/).

<span id="education-benefits">

### Education Benefits
If you’re the dependent or surviving spouse or child of a Veteran, you may qualify for education and training benefits. 
Find out if you qualify for:

- [Survivors’ and Dependents’ Assistance
(education and training opportunities, plus help paying for school)](/education/gi-bill/survivors-dependent-assistance/)<br>
- [Free educational and career counseling services](/education/tools-programs/education-career-counseling/)<br>
- [Work study (a part-time job while you're in school)](/education/work-learn/workstudy/)<br>

[Use the GI Bill Comparison Tool to see what benefits you’ll get at different schools](/gi-bill-comparison-tool/).<br>
[Find out how to apply for education benefits](/education/apply/).<br>

If your Veteran qualifies for the Post-9/11 GI Bill but doesn’t use all their benefits, they may be able to transfer up to 36 months of those unused benefits to you. <br>
[Find out if your Veteran can transfer benefits to you](/education/gi-bill/transfer/).

**Looking for education and training information on behalf of a Servicemember or Veteran?**<br>
[Learn about education and training benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans](/education/).

<span id="careers">

### Careers and Employment
If you’re the spouse or surviving spouse of a Servicemember or Veteran, you may qualify for career and employment services, like:

- Employment counseling
- Networking and connections with employers committed to hiring military spouses
- Education or training
- Career-specific mentoring
- Workshops focused on building resumes and cover letters as well as networking and interviewing skills
- Entrepreneurship training to help you start your own business

[Explore resources for military and Veteran family members](/employment/job-seekers/family-members/).

**Looking for career and employment information on behalf of a Servicemember or Veteran?**<br>
[Learn about career and employment benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans](/employment/).

<span id="voc-rehab">

### Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)

If you’re the spouse or child of a Servicemember or Veteran with disabilities, you may qualify for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) benefits. These benefits can help you return to work or school while you continue to care for your family member.

Benefits may include educational and vocational (job) counseling, plus help with:

- Exploring your abilities and interests
- Mapping out a career path
- Planning the best use of your VA benefits

[Find out if you qualify for counseling and how to apply](/employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/family-members/).

**Looking for VR&E information on behalf of a Servicemember or Veteran?**<br>
[Learn about VR&E benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans](/employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/).
<!-- should be /vocational-rehab-and-employment/ -->

<span id="life-insurance">

### Life Insurance

If you’re the spouse or dependent child of a Servicemember, you may qualify for term life insurance coverage through our Family Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance (FSGLI). [Find out if you qualify for FSGLI and how to apply](/life-insurance/options-and-eligibility/fsgli/).

If you have FSGLI coverage, you can also get free, professional financial planning and online will preparation services. [Access beneficiary financial counseling and online will preparation](http://www.benefits.va.gov/insurance/bfcs.asp).

If you or your Servicemember or Veteran has a terminal illness, you may be able to get your life insurance benefits early. Having a terminal illness means you have an illness that can’t be cured and will likely result in death within a short period of time. [Learn about accelerated claims for terminally ill policyholders](/life-insurance/disabled-and-terminally-ill/).

**Looking for life insurance information on behalf of a Servicemember or Veteran?**<br>
[Learn about life insurance benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans](/life-insurance/).
<br>

<span id="survivors-pension">

### Survivors Pension

If you’re an unmarried surviving spouse or an unmarried child of a deceased Veteran with wartime service, you may be able to get monthly pension payments. [Find out if you qualify for a Survivors Pension and how to apply](/pension/survivors-pension/).

If you need help with your daily activities—or you’re housebound—you may also qualify for Aid and Attendance or Housebound allowances. This extra money will be added to your monthly pension payments. [Find out if you qualify for Aid and Attendance or Housebound allowances](/pension/aid-attendance-housebound/).

**Looking for pension information on behalf of a Veteran?**<br>
[Learn about the Veterans Pension program](/pension/).
<br>

<span id="burials">

### Burials and Memorials

If you’d like to find out in advance if you can be buried in a VA national cemetery, you can apply for a pre-need determination of eligibility. [Apply for a pre-need eligibility determination](/burials-and-memorials/pre-need/).

If a Servicemember, Veteran, or eligible spouse or dependent child in your family dies, we’re here to help you through the process of planning their burial and memorial.

[Learn about how to plan a burial for a deceased family member](/burials-and-memorials/burial-planning/).<br>
[See if the deceased qualifies for burial in a VA national cemetery and other burial honors](/burials-and-memorials/eligibility/).<br>
[Find out what to expect at a memorial service](/burials-and-memorials/what-to-expect-at-a-funeral/). <br>

#### Survivor and Dependent Benefits
If you’re the surviving spouse, child, or parent of a Servicemember or Veteran, you may also qualify for tax-free monetary benefits and help paying for the funeral. [Find out if you qualify for burial allowances and survivor compensation](/burials-and-memorials/survivor-and-dependent-benefits/).

If you’re the surviving spouse, child, or parent of a Servicemember who died while serving their country or a Reservist or National Guardsman who died while on duty, you may qualify for bereavement counseling. [Find out if you qualify for free bereavement counseling](/burials-and-memorials/bereavement-counseling/). 
<br>

<span id="housing-assistance">

### Housing Assistance

If you’re the surviving spouse of a Veteran, we may be able to help you build, buy, improve, or refinance a home.
[Learn how VA-backed home loans work](/housing-assistance/home-loans/loan-options/).<br>
[Find out if you qualify to get a Certificate of Eligibility (COE) for a VA-backed home loan](/housing-assistance/home-loans/eligibility/).<br>
[Find out how to apply for a COE—and what to do next to get a VA-backed home loan](/housing-assistance/home-loans/apply-for-certificate-of-eligibility/).<br>

If you have a VA-backed home loan and you’re having trouble making your mortgage payments, we may be able to help you avoid foreclosure and keep your home. [Find out how we can help you avoid foreclosure](/housing-assistance/home-loans/trouble-making-payments/). 

**Looking for information about buying, building, or making changes to a home to help a Veteran with disabilities?**<br>
[Learn about adaptive housing grants](/housing-assistance/adaptive-housing-grants/).
<br>

<span id="caregiver-support">

### Caregiver Support

If you’re a family member caring for a Veteran with disabilities who was injured in the line of duty on or after September 11, 2001, you may qualify for supportive benefits and services through the Program of Comprehensive Assistance to Family Caregivers. [Find out if you qualify for comprehensive assistance and how to apply](/health-care/family-caregiver-health-benefits/comprehensive-assistance-family-caregivers).

Your Veteran may also qualify for assisted living, residential (live-in), or home health care through VA. This may include support for you as the caregiver if you need skilled help or a break so you can work, travel, or run errands. [Learn more about these long-term care services](/health-care/about-va-health-care/assisted-living-and-home-health-care/).

We also have trained Caregiver Support Coordinators at each of our VA medical centers and a Caregiver Peer Support Mentoring Program to help connect caregivers to one another for support and learning.
If you need help accessing services, help connecting with your local Caregiver Support Coordinator, or just a listening ear, call our toll-free Caregiver Support Line at 1-855-260-3274. Our caring, licensed professionals are ready to help.
[Get more information and tools for caregivers](https://www.caregiver.va.gov/index.asp).
<br>
<br>
<br>

Commit message:

added bereavement counseling link to landing page

content/pages/families-caregivers/index.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Family Member and Caregiver Benefits
permalink: /family-and-caregiver-benefits/index.md
template: level2-index
showactionbar: false

---

<div class="va-introtext">

As the family member of a Servicemember or Veteran, you may qualify for certain benefits, like health care, VA-backed home loans, life insurance, or money to help pay for college. If you’re a caregiver for a Veteran with disabilities, you may also qualify for support to help you better care for the Veteran—and for yourself. Find out which benefits you may qualify for and how to access them.

</div>

**Jump to a section:**

- [Health Care Benefits](#health-care)
- [Education Benefits](#education-benefits)
- [Careers and Employment](#careers)
- [Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)](#voc-rehab)
- [Survivors Pension](#survivors-pension)
- [Burials and Memorials](#burials)
- [Housing Assistance](#housing-assistance)
- [Caregiver Support](#caregiver-support)

<br>

<span id="health-care">

### Health Care Benefits
If you’re the spouse, surviving spouse, dependent child, or family caregiver of a Servicemember or Veteran, you may qualify for health care benefits through VA or through the Department of Defense. In certain cases, you may also qualify for health care benefits due to a disability related to your Veteran’s service. <br>
[Learn more about health care benefits for family members and caregivers](/health-care/family-caregiver-health-benefits/).

**Looking for other health care or disability insurance information on behalf of a Servicemember or Veteran?**<br>
- [Learn about health care benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans](/health-care/). <br>
- [Learn about disability benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans](/disability-benefits/).

<span id="education-benefits">

### Education Benefits
If you’re the dependent or surviving spouse or child of a Veteran, you may qualify for education and training benefits. 
Find out if you qualify for:

- [Survivors’ and Dependents’ Assistance
(education and training opportunities, plus help paying for school)](/education/gi-bill/survivors-dependent-assistance/)<br>
- [Free educational and career counseling services](/education/tools-programs/education-career-counseling/)<br>
- [Work study (a part-time job while you're in school)](/education/work-learn/workstudy/)<br>

[Use the GI Bill Comparison Tool to see what benefits you’ll get at different schools](/gi-bill-comparison-tool/).<br>
[Find out how to apply for education benefits](/education/apply/).<br>

If your Veteran qualifies for the Post-9/11 GI Bill but doesn’t use all their benefits, they may be able to transfer up to 36 months of those unused benefits to you. <br>
[Find out if your Veteran can transfer benefits to you](/education/gi-bill/transfer/).

**Looking for education and training information on behalf of a Servicemember or Veteran?**<br>
[Learn about education and training benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans](/education/).

<span id="careers">

### Careers and Employment
If you’re the spouse or surviving spouse of a Servicemember or Veteran, you may qualify for career and employment services, like:

- Employment counseling
- Networking and connections with employers committed to hiring military spouses
- Education or training
- Career-specific mentoring
- Workshops focused on building resumes and cover letters as well as networking and interviewing skills
- Entrepreneurship training to help you start your own business

[Explore resources for military and Veteran family members](/employment/job-seekers/family-members/).

**Looking for career and employment information on behalf of a Servicemember or Veteran?**<br>
[Learn about career and employment benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans](/employment/).

<span id="voc-rehab">

### Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)

If you’re the spouse or child of a Servicemember or Veteran with disabilities, you may qualify for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) benefits. These benefits can help you return to work or school while you continue to care for your family member.

Benefits may include educational and vocational (job) counseling, plus help with:

- Exploring your abilities and interests
- Mapping out a career path
- Planning the best use of your VA benefits

[Find out if you qualify for counseling and how to apply](/employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/family-members/).

**Looking for VR&E information on behalf of a Servicemember or Veteran?**<br>
[Learn about VR&E benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans](/employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/).
<!-- should be /vocational-rehab-and-employment/ -->

<span id="life-insurance">

### Life Insurance

If you’re the spouse or dependent child of a Servicemember, you may qualify for term life insurance coverage through our Family Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance (FSGLI). [Find out if you qualify for FSGLI and how to apply](/life-insurance/options-and-eligibility/fsgli/).

If you have FSGLI coverage, you can also get free, professional financial planning and online will preparation services. [Access beneficiary financial counseling and online will preparation](http://www.benefits.va.gov/insurance/bfcs.asp).

If you or your Servicemember or Veteran has a terminal illness, you may be able to get your life insurance benefits early. Having a terminal illness means you have an illness that can’t be cured and will likely result in death within a short period of time. [Learn about accelerated claims for terminally ill policyholders](/life-insurance/disabled-and-terminally-ill/).

**Looking for life insurance information on behalf of a Servicemember or Veteran?**<br>
[Learn about life insurance benefits for Servicemembers and Veterans](/life-insurance/).
<br>

<span id="survivors-pension">

### Survivors Pension

If you’re an unmarried surviving spouse or an unmarried child of a deceased Veteran with wartime service, you may be able to get monthly pension payments. [Find out if you qualify for a Survivors Pension and how to apply](/pension/survivors-pension/).

If you need help with your daily activities—or you’re housebound—you may also qualify for Aid and Attendance or Housebound allowances. This extra money will be added to your monthly pension payments. [Find out if you qualify for Aid and Attendance or Housebound allowances](/pension/aid-attendance-housebound/).

**Looking for pension information on behalf of a Veteran?**<br>
[Learn about the Veterans Pension program](/pension/).
<br>

<span id="burials">

### Burials and Memorials

If you’d like to find out in advance if you can be buried in a VA national cemetery, you can apply for a pre-need determination of eligibility. [Apply for a pre-need eligibility determination](/burials-and-memorials/pre-need/).

If a Servicemember, Veteran, or eligible spouse or dependent child in your family dies, we’re here to help you through the process of planning their burial and memorial.

[Learn about how to plan a burial for a deceased family member](/burials-and-memorials/burial-planning/).<br>
[See if the deceased qualifies for burial in a VA national cemetery and other burial honors](/burials-and-memorials/eligibility/).<br>
[Find out what to expect at a memorial service](/burials-and-memorials/what-to-expect-at-a-funeral/). <br>
[Get support through bereavement counseling after the death of a loved one](/burials-and-memorials/bereavement-counseling/).

#### Survivor and Dependent Benefits
If you’re the surviving spouse, child, or parent of a Servicemember or Veteran, you may also qualify for tax-free monetary benefits and help paying for the funeral. [Find out if you qualify for burial allowances and survivor compensation](/burials-and-memorials/survivor-and-dependent-benefits/).

If you’re the surviving spouse, child, or parent of a Servicemember who died while serving their country or a Reservist or National Guardsman who died while on duty, you may qualify for bereavement counseling. [Find out if you qualify for free bereavement counseling](/burials-and-memorials/bereavement-counseling/). 
<br>

<span id="housing-assistance">

### Housing Assistance

If you’re the surviving spouse of a Veteran, we may be able to help you build, buy, improve, or refinance a home.
[Learn how VA-backed home loans work](/housing-assistance/home-loans/loan-options/).<br>
[Find out if you qualify to get a Certificate of Eligibility (COE) for a VA-backed home loan](/housing-assistance/home-loans/eligibility/).<br>
[Find out how to apply for a COE—and what to do next to get a VA-backed home loan](/housing-assistance/home-loans/apply-for-certificate-of-eligibility/).<br>

If you have a VA-backed home loan and you’re having trouble making your mortgage payments, we may be able to help you avoid foreclosure and keep your home. [Find out how we can help you avoid foreclosure](/housing-assistance/home-loans/trouble-making-payments/). 

**Looking for information about buying, building, or making changes to a home to help a Veteran with disabilities?**<br>
[Learn about adaptive housing grants](/housing-assistance/adaptive-housing-grants/).
<br>

<span id="caregiver-support">

### Caregiver Support

If you’re a family member caring for a Veteran with disabilities who was injured in the line of duty on or after September 11, 2001, you may qualify for supportive benefits and services through the Program of Comprehensive Assistance to Family Caregivers. [Find out if you qualify for comprehensive assistance and how to apply](/health-care/family-caregiver-health-benefits/comprehensive-assistance-family-caregivers).

Your Veteran may also qualify for assisted living, residential (live-in), or home health care through VA. This may include support for you as the caregiver if you need skilled help or a break so you can work, travel, or run errands. [Learn more about these long-term care services](/health-care/about-va-health-care/assisted-living-and-home-health-care/).

We also have trained Caregiver Support Coordinators at each of our VA medical centers and a Caregiver Peer Support Mentoring Program to help connect caregivers to one another for support and learning.
If you need help accessing services, help connecting with your local Caregiver Support Coordinator, or just a listening ear, call our toll-free Caregiver Support Line at 1-855-260-3274. Our caring, licensed professionals are ready to help.
[Get more information and tools for caregivers](https://www.caregiver.va.gov/index.asp).
<br>
<br>
<br>
