src/platform/mhv/downtime/README.md, before:

## MHV Downtime

The downtime implementation for My HealtheVet applications is based in part on the platform monitoring [`DowntimeNotification` implementation](/src/platform/monitoring/DowntimeNotification/containers/DowntimeNotification.jsx), and is intended to be passed to the `DowntimeNotification` component's render method.

## Usage

Import the `renderMHVDowntime` function and pass that to the `DowntimeNotification` component:

```jsx
<>
  <h1>App heading</h1>
  <DowntimeNotification
    appTitle="an MHV application"
    dependencies={[externalServices.mhvPlatform, externalServices.mhvSm]}
    render={renderMHVDowntime}
  >
    <p>Child content that gets hidden during a downtime.</p>
  </DowntimeNotification>
  <p>This content stays visible during downtime.</p>
</>
```

The `renderMHVDowntime` will receive the `appTitle` along with props that `DowntimeNotification` passes on concerning the soonest service to go down (if any).

- `appTitle`: should be a value like `appTitle='this medical records tool'` that uses text appropriate to append to sentences like `you won't be able to use this ${appTitle}.`.
- `dependencies`: Select the appropriate property-key of the [`externalServices` object](/src/platform/monitoring/DowntimeNotification/config/externalServices.js);
- `render`: Use the [`renderMHVDowntime` function](./index.js) for convenience.

### No child content to hide?

If you don't have content you want hidden during the downtime, you can simply add the `DowntimeNotification` as a self-closing tag:

```jsx
<>
  <h1>App heading</h1>
  <DowntimeNotification
    appTitle="an MHV application"
    dependencies={[externalServices.mhvPlatform, externalServices.mhvSm]}
    render={renderMHVDowntime}
  />
  <p>This content stays visible during downtime.</p>
</>
```

## Implementation details

### Accessibility: App heading, breadcrumbs must be visible during downtime

You must make sure your app's heading and breadcrumbs are rendered _outside_ of the `DowntimeNotification` component. Children of the `DowntimeNotification` component are not rendered during downtime, and a page that does not present an appropriate heading is an accessibility concern.

### DowntimeNotification uses momentjs

Parts of `vets-website`, including the `DowntimeNotification` component use momentjs objects for datetime-related functionality. The inclusion of momentjs will increase your application bundle size significantly. Future work should remove momentjs as a dependency and use native Date objects.

Commit message:

Add link to platform docs

src/platform/mhv/downtime/README.md, after:

## MHV Downtime

The downtime implementation for My HealtheVet applications is based in part on the platform monitoring [`DowntimeNotification` implementation](/src/platform/monitoring/DowntimeNotification/containers/DowntimeNotification.jsx), and is intended to be passed to the `DowntimeNotification` component's render method.

The Platform docs describe the overall [downtime notifications](https://depo-platform-documentation.scrollhelp.site/developer-docs/downtime-notifications) functionality. The MHV downtime implementation builds on and adapts the platform monitoring solution.

## Usage

Import the `renderMHVDowntime` function and pass that to the `DowntimeNotification` component:

```jsx
<>
  <h1>App heading</h1>
  <DowntimeNotification
    appTitle="an MHV application"
    dependencies={[externalServices.mhvPlatform, externalServices.mhvSm]}
    render={renderMHVDowntime}
  >
    <p>Child content that gets hidden during a downtime.</p>
  </DowntimeNotification>
  <p>This content stays visible during downtime.</p>
</>
```

The `renderMHVDowntime` will receive the `appTitle` along with props that `DowntimeNotification` passes on concerning the soonest service to go down (if any).

- `appTitle`: should be a value like `appTitle='this medical records tool'` that uses text appropriate to append to sentences like `you won't be able to use this ${appTitle}.`.
- `dependencies`: Select the appropriate property-key of the [`externalServices` object](/src/platform/monitoring/DowntimeNotification/config/externalServices.js);
- `render`: Use the [`renderMHVDowntime` function](./index.js) for convenience.

### No child content to hide?

If you don't have content you want hidden during the downtime, you can simply add the `DowntimeNotification` as a self-closing tag:

```jsx
<>
  <h1>App heading</h1>
  <DowntimeNotification
    appTitle="an MHV application"
    dependencies={[externalServices.mhvPlatform, externalServices.mhvSm]}
    render={renderMHVDowntime}
  />
  <p>This content stays visible during downtime.</p>
</>
```

## Implementation details

### Accessibility: App heading, breadcrumbs must be visible during downtime

You must make sure your app's heading and breadcrumbs are rendered _outside_ of the `DowntimeNotification` component. Children of the `DowntimeNotification` component are not rendered during downtime, and a page that does not present an appropriate heading is an accessibility concern.

### DowntimeNotification uses momentjs

Parts of `vets-website`, including the `DowntimeNotification` component use momentjs objects for datetime-related functionality. The inclusion of momentjs will increase your application bundle size significantly. Future work should remove momentjs as a dependency and use native Date objects.
