content/pages/employment/job-seekers/register-your-business.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: topic-landing
title: Register to Do Business with VA and Get Support for Your Veteran-Owned Small Business
display_title: Register Your Veteran-Owned Small Business
concurrence: complete
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you’re a Veteran who owns a small business, you may qualify for advantages when bidding on government contracts—along with access to other resources and support—through the Vets First Verification Program. This program is run by the Office of Small & Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSDBU). Registering through OSDBU will allow you to work with us (all businesses who work with VA must be registered). Find out if you can register your Veteran-owned small business.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I register my business as a Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB) through the Vets First Verification Program?

You may qualify if you’re a Veteran, and either you or another Veteran at the company:

- Owns 51% or more of the company you want to register, **and**
- Has full control over the day-to-day management, decision-making, and strategic policy of the business, **and**
- Has the managerial experience needed to manage the business, **and**
- Is the highest-paid person in the company (or can provide a written statement explaining why your taking lower pay helps the business), **and**
- Works full time for the business, **and**
- Holds the highest officer position in the company

**Please note:** You’re considered a Veteran if you:

- Served on active duty with the Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard for any length of time and were discharged under conditions other than dishonorable, **or**
- Served as a Reservist or member of the National Guard and were called to federal active duty or disabled from a disease or injury that started or got worse in the line of duty or while in training status

<br>

### Can I register my business as a Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB)?

You may qualify if you meet all the requirements of a VOSB listed above, and either you or another Veteran owner of the company has:

- A disability rating letter from us confirming that you have a service-connected disability rating between 0 and 100%, **or**
- A disability determination from the Department of Defense

</div>

**Jump to a section:**
- [What kind of advantages and support can I get when I register my business?](#business-advantages)
- [How do I register my small business?](#business-how)
- [How do I get advice for bidding on federal contracts in my area?](#business-bidding)
- [What if I have other questions about these benefits?](#business-questions)
- [Are there other resources that can help me start or grow a business?](#business-resources)

<br>
<span id="business-advantages">

#### What kind of advantages and support can I get when I register my business?

- The ability to do business with us. If you want to do business with VA, your company must be registered as a VOSB or SDVOSB.
- Priority when you bid on contracts for other federal or state government agencies
- Tax relief
- Better access to capital
- Extra support if your startup or small business is poised for high growth and innovation
- [Support in finding VA procurements, contract awards, and acquisition resources](https://www.va.gov/osdbu/acquisition/index.asp)
- [Resources, education, and training to help you learn how to do business with us](https://www.va.gov/osdbu/outreach/soc/index.asp)
- [Help building business partnerships and connecting with the people who make decisions about procurement in government and large private-sector firms](https://www.va.gov/osdbu/outreach/dap/index.asp)
- [Resources to guide you through every step of becoming an entrepreneur](https://www.va.gov/OSDBU/entrepreneur/index.asp)<br>

[Learn more about the Vets First Verification Program](https://www.va.gov/osdbu/verification/index.asp).

<br>
<span id="business-how">

#### How do I register my small business?
 
To register as a VOSB or SDVOSB, you’ll need to apply through the Vets First Verification Program. 
[Apply online](https://www.vip.vetbiz.gov/). 

Our VA-certified Verification Assistance Counselors—and Verification Program Webinars and Town Halls—can help guide you through the process. If you use these pre-qualification resources, you can help speed up the decision on your application.</br>

[Find a VA verification counselor in your state](https://www.va.gov/osdbu/verification/assistance/counselors.asp).</br>
[View Verification Program webinars on how to apply for the first time or for reverification](https://www.va.gov/osdbu/verification/you_asked_we_listened.asp).

<br>
<span id="business-bidding">
 
#### How do I get advice for bidding on federal contracts in my area?
 
Contact your local VA Small Business Liaison. [Find a VA Small Business Liaison near you](https://www.va.gov/OSDBU/about/contacts.asp).

<br>
<span id="business-questions">

#### What if I have other questions about these benefits?

To learn more about how we can help you access opportunities:

- Call the OSDBU Call Center at <a href="tel:+1866-584-2344">1-866-584-2344</a> anytime from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (ET), **or**
- Email us at <a href="mailto:osdbu@va.gov">osdbu@va.gov</a><br>

To learn more about OSDBU and to access our events calendar and other online resources, visit our website. [Go to the OSDBU website](https://www.va.gov/OSDBU/index.asp). 

<br>
<span id="business-resources">

#### Are there other resources that can help me start or grow a business?

Yes. The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) can provide you with resources to help you start or grow your own business. And many universities and nonprofit organizations offer free or low-cost entrepreneur and business-focused courses for Veterans and military family members. Some courses are online, while others are in-person classes.</br>
[Visit the Small Business Administration website](https://www.sba.gov/).</br> 
[Learn about SBA’s Office of Veterans Business Development (OVBD)](https://www.sba.gov/business-guide/grow/veteran-owned-businesses-programs#section-header-0).<br>

Find out about these training programs offered by the Institute for Veterans and Military Families at Syracuse University in partnership with SBA and other organizations:
- [Boots to Business (for Servicemembers and their spouses)](https://ivmf.syracuse.edu/veteran-and-family-resources/starting-growing-a-business/boots-to-business/).
- [Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans with Disabilities (for post-9/11 Veterans with service-connected disabilities and their family caregivers)](http://ebv.vets.syr.edu/)
- [Veteran Women Igniting the Spirit of Entrepreneurship (for women Veterans and female military spouses and partners)](https://ivmf.syracuse.edu/veteran-and-family-resources/starting-growing-a-business/v-wise/)<br>

If you’re already open for business and want to sell to the federal government, the Procurement Technical Assistance Center (PTAC) can help with the required documentation and registration to bid on government contracts. [Find a PTAC near you](http://www.aptac-us.org/).

Commit message:

**all of the following are true for you

content/pages/employment/job-seekers/register-your-business.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: topic-landing
title: Register to Do Business with VA and Get Support for Your Veteran-Owned Small Business
display_title: Register Your Veteran-Owned Small Business
concurrence: complete
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you’re a Veteran who owns a small business, you may qualify for advantages when bidding on government contracts—along with access to other resources and support—through the Vets First Verification Program. This program is run by the Office of Small & Disadvantaged Business Utilization (OSDBU). Registering through OSDBU will allow you to work with us (all businesses who work with VA must be registered). Find out if you can register your Veteran-owned small business.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I register my business as a Veteran-Owned Small Business (VOSB) through the Vets First Verification Program?

You may qualify if you’re a Veteran, and **all of the following are true for you or another Veteran at the company**:

- Owns 51% or more of the company you want to register, **and**
- Has full control over the day-to-day management, decision-making, and strategic policy of the business, **and**
- Has the managerial experience needed to manage the business, **and**
- Is the highest-paid person in the company (or can provide a written statement explaining why your taking lower pay helps the business), **and**
- Works full time for the business, **and**
- Holds the highest officer position in the company

**Please note:** You’re considered a Veteran if **one of the following is true for you**:

- You served on active duty with the Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard for any length of time and were discharged under conditions other than dishonorable, **or**
- You served as a Reservist or member of the National Guard and were called to federal active duty or disabled from a disease or injury that started or got worse in the line of duty or while in training status

<br>

### Can I register my business as a Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB)?

You may qualify if you meet all the requirements of a VOSB listed above, and either you or another Veteran owner of the company has **at least one of the following**:

- A disability rating letter from us confirming that you have a service-connected disability rating between 0 and 100%, **or**
- A disability determination from the Department of Defense

</div>

**Jump to a section:**
- [What kind of advantages and support can I get when I register my business?](#business-advantages)
- [How do I register my small business?](#business-how)
- [How do I get advice for bidding on federal contracts in my area?](#business-bidding)
- [What if I have other questions about these benefits?](#business-questions)
- [Are there other resources that can help me start or grow a business?](#business-resources)

<br>
<span id="business-advantages">

#### What kind of advantages and support can I get when I register my business?

- The ability to do business with us. If you want to do business with VA, your company must be registered as a VOSB or SDVOSB.
- Priority when you bid on contracts for other federal or state government agencies
- Tax relief
- Better access to capital
- Extra support if your startup or small business is poised for high growth and innovation
- [Support in finding VA procurements, contract awards, and acquisition resources](https://www.va.gov/osdbu/acquisition/index.asp)
- [Resources, education, and training to help you learn how to do business with us](https://www.va.gov/osdbu/outreach/soc/index.asp)
- [Help building business partnerships and connecting with the people who make decisions about procurement in government and large private-sector firms](https://www.va.gov/osdbu/outreach/dap/index.asp)
- [Resources to guide you through every step of becoming an entrepreneur](https://www.va.gov/OSDBU/entrepreneur/index.asp)<br>

[Learn more about the Vets First Verification Program](https://www.va.gov/osdbu/verification/index.asp).

<br>
<span id="business-how">

#### How do I register my small business?
 
To register as a VOSB or SDVOSB, you’ll need to apply through the Vets First Verification Program. <br>
[Apply online](https://www.vip.vetbiz.gov/). 

Our VA-certified Verification Assistance Counselors—and Verification Program Webinars and Town Halls—can help guide you through the process. If you use these pre-qualification resources, you can help speed up the decision on your application.</br>

[Find a VA verification counselor in your state](https://www.va.gov/osdbu/verification/assistance/counselors.asp).</br>
[View Verification Program webinars on how to apply for the first time or for reverification](https://www.va.gov/osdbu/verification/you_asked_we_listened.asp).

<br>
<span id="business-bidding">
 
#### How do I get advice for bidding on federal contracts in my area?
 
Contact your local VA Small Business Liaison. <br>
[Find a VA Small Business Liaison near you](https://www.va.gov/OSDBU/about/contacts.asp).

<br>
<span id="business-questions">

#### What if I have other questions about these benefits?

To learn more about how we can help you access opportunities:

- Call the OSDBU Call Center at <a href="tel:+1866-584-2344">1-866-584-2344</a> anytime from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (ET), **or**
- Email us at <a href="mailto:osdbu@va.gov">osdbu@va.gov</a><br>

To learn more about OSDBU and to access our events calendar and other online resources, visit our website. <br>
[Go to the OSDBU website](https://www.va.gov/OSDBU/index.asp). 

<br>
<span id="business-resources">

#### Are there other resources that can help me start or grow a business?

Yes. The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) can provide you with resources to help you start or grow your own business. And many universities and nonprofit organizations offer free or low-cost entrepreneur and business-focused courses for Veterans and military family members. Some courses are online, while others are in-person classes.</br>
[Visit the Small Business Administration website](https://www.sba.gov/).</br> 
[Learn about SBA’s Office of Veterans Business Development (OVBD)](https://www.sba.gov/business-guide/grow/veteran-owned-businesses-programs#section-header-0).<br>

Find out about these training programs offered by the Institute for Veterans and Military Families at Syracuse University in partnership with SBA and other organizations:
- [Boots to Business (for Servicemembers and their spouses)](https://ivmf.syracuse.edu/veteran-and-family-resources/starting-growing-a-business/boots-to-business/).
- [Entrepreneurship Bootcamp for Veterans with Disabilities (for post-9/11 Veterans with service-connected disabilities and their family caregivers)](http://ebv.vets.syr.edu/)
- [Veteran Women Igniting the Spirit of Entrepreneurship (for women Veterans and female military spouses and partners)](https://ivmf.syracuse.edu/veteran-and-family-resources/starting-growing-a-business/v-wise/)<br>

If you’re already open for business and want to sell to the federal government, the Procurement Technical Assistance Center (PTAC) can help with the required documentation and registration to bid on government contracts. [Find a PTAC near you](http://www.aptac-us.org/).
