content/pages/disability-benefits/apply/help.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Get Help Filing Your Claim
concurrence: incomplete
plainlanguage: 11-2-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
order: 5
relatedlinks:
  - heading: More information about filing disability claims
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/claim-types/fully-developed-claim/
      title: Fully Developed Claim 
      description: "File a fully developed claim and get a faster decision on your disability benefits claim."
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/
      title: Disability Benefits Application Process
      description: "Apply online now, or find out how to apply in person, by mail, or with the help of a trained professional."
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/claim-types/predischarge-claim/
      title: Pre-discharge Claim
      description: "If you have a disability and you’re in pre-discharge status right now, you can file a pre-discharge disability claim 180 to 90 days before you leave the military."
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/one-year/
      title: Disabilities That Appear Within 1 Year After Discharge
      description: "You may be able to get disability benefits if you have an illness that started within a year after you were discharged from service."
    - url: /disability-benefits/after-you-apply/date/
      title: Effective Date of Disability 
      description: "Learn how VA decides the date you can start getting your disability benefits. "
---
<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/FAQPage">
<div itemprop="description" class="va-introtext">

If you need help filing a claim, you may want to work with an accredited attorney, a claims agent, or a Veterans Service Officer (VSO). We trust these professionals because they’re trained and certified in the VA claims process and can help you with VA-related needs. 

VSOs work on behalf of Veterans and Servicemembers—as well as their dependents and survivors. Find out more about accredited representatives and how they can help you.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="0" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">What does it take to be an accredited representative or a VSO?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

Accredited representatives and VSOs need to:
  - Pass an exam
  - Pass a background check
  - Take continuing-education courses to make sure they’re providing the most up-to-date information

Recognized organizations and individuals can legally represent a Veteran, Servicemember, dependent, or survivor before VA. Non-recognized organizations and individuals can provide information, but can’t be representatives.

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">What does an accredited representative or a VSO do?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">


Accredited representatives and VSOs can help you understand and apply for VA benefits, like:

- Financial support (monthly payments)
- Education
- Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment (VR&E)
- Home loans
- Life insurance
- Pension
- Health care
- Burial benefits

These trained professionals can also: 
- Help you gather supporting documents (like a doctor’s report or medical test results)
- File a claim on your behalf
- Provide additional resources to Veterans, such as helping with transportation to medical appointments or emergency funds

**Note:** Veterans Service Officers work for Veterans Service Organizations (both are called VSOs), as well as for local government offices. 

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h4 itemprop="name">What does it cost to use an accredited representative or a VSO?</h4>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

In general, no individual or organization may charge you a fee to help you file your initial application for benefits. But they may charge you for unusual expenses. It's only after VA has made a decision about your claim that VA-accredited claims agents and attorneys may charge for their services. Make sure you ask up front what, if any, fees you’ll be charged. If you believe a claims agent or attorney charged a fee that’s too high, you can challenge it. <br>
[Find out more in the “How to Challenge a Fee” guide](https://www.va.gov/OGC/docs/Accred/HowtoChallengeaFee.pdf).

</div>
</div>
</div>

-----

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">How do I find an accredited representative or a VSO?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

You can find an accredited representative or a VSO in 1 of 2 ways:

- Go to eBenefits to find a local representative (including a recognized VSO, an attorney, or a claims agent) by state/territory, zip code, or the organization’s name. <br>
[Go to eBenefits](https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/vso-search).
- Or search the VA Office of the General Counsel’s list to find VA-recognized organizations and VA-accredited individuals by name, city, state, or zip code. <br>
[Search the VA Office of the General Counsel's list](https://www.va.gov/ogc/apps/accreditation/index.asp).

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h4 itemprop="name">How do I set up an accredited representative or a VSO to work on my behalf?</h4>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

You can set up an accredited representative or a VSO to work on your behalf in 1 of 2 ways:

- Use eBenefits to let us know you’ll be working with a representative or to change your current representation.<br>
[Go to eBenefits](https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/manage/representative). 
- Or fill out a form called an Appointment of Veterans Service Organization as Claimant’s Representative (VA Form 21-22). <br>[Download VA Form 21-22](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21-22-ARE.pdf).  

Mail this form to your nearest VA regional office. Please speak to the service organization or representative before you send your request. <br>
[Find a VA regional office near you](/facilities/).

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

Commit message:

Adding third link to Set up accredited rep (#7324)
* Adding third link to Set up accredited rep

* Edits

* copy edit

* ME review: help

* Update help.md

* add in "form"

* remove "form"

content/pages/disability-benefits/apply/help.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Get Help Filing Your Claim
concurrence: incomplete
plainlanguage: 11-2-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
order: 5
relatedlinks:
  - heading: More information about filing disability claims
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/claim-types/fully-developed-claim/
      title: Fully Developed Claim 
      description: "File a fully developed claim and get a faster decision on your disability benefits claim."
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/
      title: Disability Benefits Application Process
      description: "Apply online now, or find out how to apply in person, by mail, or with the help of a trained professional."
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/claim-types/predischarge-claim/
      title: Pre-discharge Claim
      description: "If you have a disability and you’re in pre-discharge status right now, you can file a pre-discharge disability claim 180 to 90 days before you leave the military."
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/one-year/
      title: Disabilities That Appear Within 1 Year After Discharge
      description: "You may be able to get disability benefits if you have an illness that started within a year after you were discharged from service."
    - url: /disability-benefits/after-you-apply/date/
      title: Effective Date of Disability 
      description: "Learn how VA decides the date you can start getting your disability benefits. "
---
<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/FAQPage">
<div itemprop="description" class="va-introtext">

If you need help filing a claim, you may want to work with an accredited attorney, a claims agent, or a Veterans Service Officer (VSO). We trust these professionals because they’re trained and certified in the VA claims process and can help you with VA-related needs. 

VSOs work on behalf of Veterans and Servicemembers—as well as their dependents and survivors. Find out more about accredited representatives and how they can help you.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="0" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">What does it take to be an accredited representative or a VSO?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

Accredited representatives and VSOs need to:
  - Pass an exam
  - Pass a background check
  - Take continuing-education courses to make sure they’re providing the most up-to-date information

Recognized organizations and individuals can legally represent a Veteran, Servicemember, dependent, or survivor before VA. Non-recognized organizations and individuals can provide information, but can’t be representatives.

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">What does an accredited representative or a VSO do?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">


Accredited representatives and VSOs can help you understand and apply for VA benefits, like:

- Financial support (monthly payments)
- Education
- Vocational Rehabilitation & Employment (VR&E)
- Home loans
- Life insurance
- Pension
- Health care
- Burial benefits

These trained professionals can also: 
- Help you gather supporting documents (like a doctor’s report or medical test results)
- File a claim on your behalf
- Provide additional resources to Veterans, such as helping with transportation to medical appointments or emergency funds

**Note:** Veterans Service Officers work for Veterans Service Organizations (both are called VSOs), as well as for local government offices. 

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h4 itemprop="name">What does it cost to use an accredited representative or a VSO?</h4>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

In general, no individual or organization may charge you a fee to help you file your initial application for benefits. But they may charge you for unusual expenses. It's only after VA has made a decision about your claim that VA-accredited claims agents and attorneys may charge for their services. Make sure you ask up front what, if any, fees you’ll be charged. If you believe a claims agent or attorney charged a fee that’s too high, you can challenge it. <br>
[Find out more in the “How to Challenge a Fee” guide](https://www.va.gov/OGC/docs/Accred/HowtoChallengeaFee.pdf).

</div>
</div>
</div>

-----

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">How do I find an accredited representative or a VSO?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

You can find an accredited representative or a VSO in 1 of 2 ways:

- Go to eBenefits to find a local representative (including a recognized VSO, an attorney, or a claims agent) by state/territory, zip code, or the organization’s name. <br>
[Go to eBenefits](https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/vso-search).
- Or search the VA Office of the General Counsel’s list to find VA-recognized organizations and VA-accredited individuals by name, city, state, or zip code. <br>
[Search the VA Office of the General Counsel's list](https://www.va.gov/ogc/apps/accreditation/index.asp).

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h4 itemprop="name">How do I set up an accredited representative or a VSO to work on my behalf?</h4>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

You'll need to either use eBenefits or fill out a form and mail it in.

**Choose one of these ways get set up:**

- Use eBenefits to let us know you’ll be working with a representative or to change your current representation. <br> 
[Go to eBenefits](https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/manage/representative).
- To have a VSO help you, fill out an Appointment of Veterans Service Organization as Claimant’s Representative (VA Form 21-22). <br>
[Download VA Form 21-22](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21-22-ARE.pdf).
- To have a claims agent or attorney help you, fill out an Appointment of Individual as Claimant's Representative (VA Form 21-22a). <br>
[Download VA Form 21-22a](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21-22A-ARE.pdf).


If you're filling out one of the forms, you'll need to mail it to your nearest VA regional office. Please speak to the service organization or representative before you send your request. <br>
[Find a VA regional office near you](/facilities/).

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
