# My First Form

## Table of contents

1. [Form System Concepts](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/forms-library-book-cv/docs/forms-library/src/my-first-form.md#form-system-concepts)
2. [The Yeoman generator](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/forms-library-book-cv/docs/forms-library/src/my-first-form.md#the-yeoman-generator)
3. Form Schema
4. Form uiSchema

Welcome to the VA Forms Library! In this chapter, we'll create a simple form application from the ground up and get it running on your local machine. Before we dive into actually building a form it will be helpful to give a bird's eye view of how our form system works.

## Form system concepts

> If you are the type of engineer that likes to jump in and code you can skip to the [Yeoman generator](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/forms-library-book-cv/docs/forms-library/src/my-first-form.md#the-yeoman-generator) section where we start building our first form

Conceptually our form system is set up to help you build a form on VA.gov as quickly and painlessly as possible. In practice what this means is that you as the engineer building the form only need to fill out a configuration file and everything else in terms of building the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript is all taken care of by the form system.  This can be a huge abstraction at first so let's explore this a little deeper. 

The work you do with the form system will center around the configuration file I mentioned earlier, this file is called `form.js`. This configuration file is mostly a JSON object that gets exported as the default from the file. This JSON object is where you tell the form system what your form is called, how many pages it has, what form fields are in each page, how each field is to be validated, basically everything about your form. This configuration file can become very large and very complicated so it is critical that we become very comfortable with it from the outset, otherwise things can get tricky later on.

In a moment we will run the Yeoman generator to build a form and a `form.js` file will be created for you, however let's look at what that file will contain so that we are familiar with it before we see it in action. The main areas of interest are a set of imports and a JSON object called `formConfig`, lets focus on this `formConfig` object for a moment, here is what it looks like and it contains lots of JSON -

```
...Some imports

const formConfig = {
  ...Lots of JSON
}

```

When we look at the JSON inside this `formConfig` object you will see many of the name/ value pairs you can use to configure your form, things like `submitUrl` and `trackingPrefix`. You will see that everything inside this is just JSON name/ value pairs and setting the values of these name/ value pairs is the main way you will configure your form. We will get into what each and all of these mean, and the ones you will see that are generated by the Yeoman generator are not all of the fields you can add, there are more. 

> There is a full API reference for form.js located [here](https://github.com/department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website/blob/forms-library-book-cv/docs/forms-library/src/reference.md) if you need it.

Critically this `form.js` file also contains configuration options for the pages and fields of the form. In the file created by the Yeoman generator we will look at in a moment you will see a key/ value pair for `chapters`, the concept of chapters is really just a way to organize the pages of your form into 'sections'. A good example of this may be that your form might require a 'veteran information' page with things like name, social security number, and email address. Your form might also require a'veteran address' page with things like city, state, and street address. Both the 'veteran information' and 'veteran address' pages could be considered part of a section called 'veteran details', this 'veteran details' section is the perfect use case for a `chapter`. The `chapter` for 'veteran details' would include two pages, one for 'veteran information' and one for 'veteran address'. Inside the page objects for 'veteran information' and 'veteran address' you would place the key/ value pairs for each of the fields you want included on these pages.

At this point it will be helpful for us to actually build a form using the Yeoman generator so we can see what this all looks like in practice.

## The Yeoman generator

> This section assumes you have `vets-website` running on your local machine, if you still need to set that up you can visit [this page for instructions](https://department-of-veterans-affairs.github.io/veteran-facing-services-tools/getting-started).

To make setting up a form as easy as possible we have a Yeoman generator that will take you through a few questions about the form you are building and then create the files and code you need to get started. To beign, navigate to the root of your local `vets-website` and run

```
yo @department-of-veterans-affairs/vets-website
```

This will take you through a few questions as follows - 

|  Question | Answer type | Sample Answer |
|-----------|-------------|---------------|
| What's the name of your application? | String | 'My Form' |
