content/pages/education/other-educational-assistance-programs/call-to-service.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: National Call to Service Program
concurrence: incomplete
order: 2
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you performed a period of national service, you may qualify for the National Call to Service program, which allows you to choose an education benefit as an alternative to the Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB). Find out if you qualify.

</div>


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get this benefit?

You qualify for the National Call to Service program if you completed your initial entry training and then continued to serve on active duty in a military occupational specialty designated by the Secretary of Defense for a period of 15 months, **and**

Then, without a break in service, served either an additional period of active duty as determined by the Secretary of Defense or a period of 24 months in active status in the Selected Reserve, **and**

Then, without a break in service, spent the rest of your obligated service:
  - On active duty in the Armed Forces, **or**
  - In the Selected Reserve, **or**
  -	In the Individual Ready Reserve, **or**
  -	In AmeriCorps, or another domestic national service program jointly designated by the Secretary of Defense.

### Who’s covered?
Veterans
</div>

### What benefits can I get?

You may chose from the following:

-	A cash bonus of $5,000.
-	Repayment of a qualifying student loan not more than $18,000.
-	Educational assistance equal to the 3-year monthly MGIB rate for 12 months.
-	Educational assistance equal to 50% of the less-than-3-year monthly MGIB rate for 36 months.

------

### How do I get these benefits?

[Apply online now](/education/apply-for-education-benefits/application/1990N).

If you enlist under the National Call to Service program, you don’t qualify for MGIB, unless you reenlist at a later date for an additional period of service. Contact your recruiter to see if you qualify and to enroll in the National Call to Service program. This benefit affects your service contract.

### Get more information

[National Call to Service program pamphlet](https://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill/docs/pamphlets/summary-of-national-call-to-service-program.pdf).


This program is administered by VA for the Department of Defense.

Commit message:

and at least one of the following is true for you

content/pages/education/other-educational-assistance-programs/call-to-service.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: National Call to Service Program
concurrence: incomplete
order: 2
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you performed a period of national service, you may qualify for the National Call to Service program, which allows you to choose an education benefit as an alternative to the Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB). Find out if you qualify.

</div>


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get this benefit?

You qualify for the National Call to Service program if you completed your initial entry training and then continued to serve on active duty for 15 months in a military occupational specialty designated by the Secretary of Defense, **and**

Then, without a break in service, you served either an additional period of active duty as determined by the Secretary of Defense or a period of 24 months in active status in the Selected Reserve, **and at least one of the following is true for you**:

You, without a break in service, then spent the rest of your obligated service:
  - On active duty in the Armed Forces, **or**
  - In the Selected Reserve, **or**
  -	In the Individual Ready Reserve, **or**
  -	In AmeriCorps, or another domestic national service program jointly designated by the Secretary of Defense.

### Who’s covered?
Veterans
</div>

### What benefits can I get?

You may chose from the following:

-	A cash bonus of $5,000.
-	Repayment of a qualifying student loan not more than $18,000.
-	Educational assistance equal to the 3-year monthly MGIB rate for 12 months.
-	Educational assistance equal to 50% of the less-than-3-year monthly MGIB rate for 36 months.

------

### How do I get these benefits?

[Apply online now](/education/apply-for-education-benefits/application/1990N).

If you enlist under the National Call to Service program, you don’t qualify for MGIB, unless you reenlist at a later date for an additional period of service. Contact your recruiter to see if you qualify and to enroll in the National Call to Service program. This benefit affects your service contract.

### Get more information

[National Call to Service program pamphlet](https://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill/docs/pamphlets/summary-of-national-call-to-service-program.pdf).


This program is administered by VA for the Department of Defense.
