content/pages/education/gi-bill/montgomery-selected-reserve.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserve (MGIB-SR)
concurrence: complete
plainlanguage: 12-05-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
order: 6
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you’re a member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps or Coast Guard Reserve, Army National Guard, or Air National Guard, you may be able to get up to 36 months of education and training benefits under the Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserve (MGIB-SR) program. Find out if you qualify.

</div>


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get education benefits under this program?
You can get education benefits if:
- You have a 6-year service obligation (you agreed to serve 6 years) in the Selected Reserve **or**
- You’re an officer in the Selected Reserve and you agreed to serve 6 years in addition to your initial service obligation

And you:
- Finish your initial active duty for training (IADT), **and**
- Get a high school diploma or something of equal value, like a High School Equivalency Diploma or GED, before finishing IADT, **and**
- Stay in good standing while serving in an active Selected Reserve unit.
</div>

### What benefits can I get?

We’ll give you up to $368 per month in compensation (payments) for these types of training:

- [Undergraduate and graduate degree programs](/education/gi-bill/higher-learning/)
- [Co-op training](/education/work-learn/co-op-training/)
- [Non-college degree programs (technical or vocational courses)](/education/work-learn/non-college-degree-program/)
- [Flight training](/education/advanced-training-and-certifications/flight-training/)
- [On-the-job training and apprenticeships](/education/work-learn/job-and-apprenticeship/)
- [High-tech training](/education/work-learn/non-traditional/accelerated-payments/) for Reservists in non-degree educational programs lasting two years or less
- [Licensing and certification tests](/education/advanced-training-and-certifications/licensing-certification/)
- [Entrepreneurship training](/education/advanced-training-and-certifications/entrepreneurship-training/)
- [Certain entrance examinations (national testing)](/education/advanced-training-and-certifications/national-testing-program/)
- [Correspondence courses](/education/work-learn/non-traditional/correspondence-training/)
- In some cases:
  - Remedial courses (classes some students must take to build up their basic skills in math, reading, or English before they can take regular college courses),
  - Deficiency courses (classes some student must take in order to be admitted to a certain college)
  - Refresher courses (brief courses that help people review and improve their knowledge in a certain subject area)


[See current payment rates](https://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill/resources/benefits_resources/rate_tables.asp#ch1606).


------


### How do I get these benefits?

[Apply online now](/education/apply-for-education-benefits/application/1990/introduction).

### Get more information
- [Ask questions on the GI Bill customer service page](http://gibill.custhelp.com/). You can also search frequently asked questions.
- Call 1-888-GI-BILL-1 (<a href="tel:+18884424551">1-888-442-4551</a>), Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>) or TDD/TTY <a href="tel:18008778339">1-800-877-8339</a>.

GI Bill&reg; is a registered trademark of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The absence of the registration symbol&reg; does not constitute a waiver of VA’s trademark rights in that phrase. Read our Terms of Use.

Commit message:

either of the following is true for you

content/pages/education/gi-bill/montgomery-selected-reserve.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserve (MGIB-SR)
concurrence: complete
plainlanguage: 12-05-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
order: 6
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you’re a member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps or Coast Guard Reserve, Army National Guard, or Air National Guard, you may be able to get up to 36 months of education and training benefits under the Montgomery GI Bill Selected Reserve (MGIB-SR) program. Find out if you qualify.

</div>


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get education benefits under this program?
You can get education benefits if **either of the following is true for you**:
- You have a 6-year service obligation (you agreed to serve 6 years) in the Selected Reserve **or**
- You’re an officer in the Selected Reserve and you agreed to serve 6 years in addition to your initial service obligation

And **all of the following are also true for you**:
- Finish your initial active duty for training (IADT), **and**
- Get a high school diploma or something of equal value, like a High School Equivalency Diploma or GED, before finishing IADT, **and**
- Stay in good standing while serving in an active Selected Reserve unit.
</div>

### What benefits can I get?

We’ll give you up to $368 per month in compensation (payments) for these types of training:

- [Undergraduate and graduate degree programs](/education/gi-bill/higher-learning/)
- [Co-op training](/education/work-learn/co-op-training/)
- [Non-college degree programs (technical or vocational courses)](/education/work-learn/non-college-degree-program/)
- [Flight training](/education/advanced-training-and-certifications/flight-training/)
- [On-the-job training and apprenticeships](/education/work-learn/job-and-apprenticeship/)
- [High-tech training](/education/work-learn/non-traditional/accelerated-payments/) for Reservists in non-degree educational programs lasting two years or less
- [Licensing and certification tests](/education/advanced-training-and-certifications/licensing-certification/)
- [Entrepreneurship training](/education/advanced-training-and-certifications/entrepreneurship-training/)
- [Certain entrance examinations (national testing)](/education/advanced-training-and-certifications/national-testing-program/)
- [Correspondence courses](/education/work-learn/non-traditional/correspondence-training/)
- In some cases:
  - Remedial courses (classes some students must take to build up their basic skills in math, reading, or English before they can take regular college courses),
  - Deficiency courses (classes some student must take in order to be admitted to a certain college)
  - Refresher courses (brief courses that help people review and improve their knowledge in a certain subject area)


[See current payment rates](https://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill/resources/benefits_resources/rate_tables.asp#ch1606).


------


### How do I get these benefits?

[Apply online now](/education/apply-for-education-benefits/application/1990/introduction).

### Get more information
- [Ask questions on the GI Bill customer service page](http://gibill.custhelp.com/). You can also search frequently asked questions.
- Call 1-888-GI-BILL-1 (<a href="tel:+18884424551">1-888-442-4551</a>), Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>) or TDD/TTY <a href="tel:18008778339">1-800-877-8339</a>.

GI Bill&reg; is a registered trademark of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The absence of the registration symbol&reg; does not constitute a waiver of VA’s trademark rights in that phrase. Read our Terms of Use.
