content/pages/housing-assistance/adaptive-housing-grants.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Adaptive Housing Grants
concurrence:
order: 2
---

<div class="va-introtext">

We offer grants to Servicemembers and Veterans with certain service-connected disabilities to buy or change a home to meet their needs and live more independently. Changing a home might involve installing ramps or widening doorways. If you’re a disabled Servicemember or Veteran, find out if you can get a grant to help meet your housing needs.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### Can I get a Specially Adapted Housing (SAH) grant—and how much funding does this grant offer?

You may be able to get an SAH grant if you’re using the grant money to buy, build, or change your permanent home (a home you plan to live in for a long time) if **both of the following are true for you**:

- You own or will own the home, **and**
- You have 1 of these service-connected disabilities (disabilities related to your service):
  - The loss or loss of use of both legs, both arms, or an arm and a leg
  - The loss or loss of use of a lower leg along with the residuals (lasting effects) of an organic (natural) disease or injury
  - Blindness in both eyes having only light perception along with the loss or loss of use of 1 leg
  - Certain severe burns
  - The loss or loss of use of 1 or both lower extremities (feet or legs) after September 11, 2001, that makes it so you can’t balance or walk without the help of braces, crutches, canes, or a wheelchair

For FY 2017, you may be able to get up to 3 grants—for a total of up to $77,307—through the SAH grant program.

<br>

### Can I get a Special Housing Adaptation (SHA) grant—and how much funding does this grant offer?

You may be able to get an SHA grant if you’re using the grant money to buy, build, or change your permanent home (a home you plan to live in for a long time) if **both of the following are true for you**:

- You or a family member own or will own the home, **and**
  - You have 1 of these service-connected disabilities (disabilities related to your service):
  - Blindness in both eyes (with 20/200 visual acuity or less)
  - The loss or loss of use of both hands
  - Certain severe burns
  - Certain respiratory or breathing injuries
  
For FY 2017, you may be able to get up to 3 grants—for a total of up to $15,462—through the SHA grant program.

<br>

### What if I need money to make changes to a family member’s home that I’m living in for a short period of time?

You may be able to get a Temporary Residence Adaptation (TRA) grant if **both of the following are true for you**:

- You qualify for an SAH or SHA grant (see above), **and**
- You are living temporarily in a family member’s home that needs changes to meet your needs

If you qualify for an SAH grant, you can get up to $33,937 through the TRA grant program for FY 2017.

If you qualify for an SHA grant, you can get up to $6,059 through the TRA grant program for FY 2017.

</div>

### How do I get an SAH, SHA, or TRA grant?

You’ll need to apply for a grant. You can apply in 1 of 3 ways:

#### Apply online

Apply through eBenefits. <br>
[Go to eBenefits]( https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/homepage).

#### Apply by mail

Fill out an Application in Acquiring Specially Adapted Housing or Special Home Adaptation Grant (VA Form 26-4555). <br>
[Download VA Form 26-4555](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-26-4555-ARE.pdf).

Mail it to your nearest regional loan center. <br>
[Find a regional loan center near you](https://www.benefits.va.gov/HOMELOANS/contact_rlc_info.asp).

If you have trouble accessing the form, call us toll-free at <a href="tel:+1-800-827-1000">1-800-827-1000</a>, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>) to have a claim form mailed to you.

#### Apply in person

Fill out VA Form 26-4555 and bring it to your nearest VA regional office. To find a regional office near you:
- [Use our online locator tool](https://www.va.gov/directory/guide/home.asp), **or**
- Call us at <a href="tel:+1-800-827-1000">1-800-827-1000</a>.

### Need help?

<a href="mailto:sahinfo.vbaco@va.gov">Email a Specially Adapted Housing (SAH) staff member</a>

Call an SAH staff member at <a href="tel:+18778273702">1-877-827-3702</a>.

Commit message:

conditional content & 2018 updates
Peggy: Could you please double check me on the note for the SAH grant and the new $ numbers? Reference is here: https://www.benefits.va.gov/homeloans/adaptedhousing.asp. Thank you!

content/pages/housing-assistance/adaptive-housing-grants.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Adaptive Housing Grants
concurrence:
order: 2
---

<div class="va-introtext">

We offer grants to Servicemembers and Veterans with certain service-connected disabilities to buy or change a home to meet their needs and live more independently. Changing a home might involve installing ramps or widening doorways. If you’re a disabled Servicemember or Veteran, find out if you can get a grant to help meet your housing needs.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### Can I get a Specially Adapted Housing (SAH) grant—and how much funding does this grant offer?

You may be able to get an SAH grant if you’re using the grant money to buy, build, or change your permanent home (a home you plan to live in for a long time), and you meet both of the requirements listed below.

**Both of these must be true. You:**
- Own or will own the home, **and**
- Have 1 of these service-connected disabilities (disabilities related to your service):
  - The loss or loss of use of both legs, both arms, or an arm and a leg
  - The loss or loss of use of a lower leg along with the residuals (lasting effects) of an organic (natural) disease or injury
  - Blindness in both eyes having only light perception along with the loss or loss of use of 1 leg
  - Certain severe burns
  - The loss or loss of use of 1 or both lower extremities (feet or legs) after September 11, 2001, that makes it so you can’t balance or walk without the help of braces, crutches, canes, or a wheelchair

For FY 2018, you may be able to get up to 3 grants—for a total of up to $81,080—through the SAH grant program.

**Please note:** We can only give this grant to 30 Veterans and Servicemembers each fiscal year (FY). We've already given out all of the available grants for 2018. If you qualify, but don't receive, a grant in 2018 because the cap was reached, you may be able to use this benefit in FY 2019 or future years if the law continues to grant us the authority to offer these grants and we don't pass the new FY cap.

<br>

### Can I get a Special Housing Adaptation (SHA) grant—and how much funding does this grant offer?

You may be able to get an SHA grant if you’re using the grant money to buy, build, or change your permanent home (a home you plan to live in for a long time) and you meet both of the requirements listed below.

**Both of these must be true:**

- You or a family member own or will own the home, **and**
- You have 1 of these service-connected disabilities (disabilities related to your service):
  - Blindness in both eyes (with 20/200 visual acuity or less)
  - The loss or loss of use of both hands
  - Certain severe burns
  - Certain respiratory or breathing injuries
  
For FY 2018, you may be able to get up to 3 grants—for a total of up to $16,217—through the SHA grant program.

<br>

### What if I need money to make changes to a family member’s home that I’m living in for a short period of time?

You may be able to get a Temporary Residence Adaptation (TRA) grant if you meet both of the requirements listed below.

**Both of these must be true. You:**

- Qualify for an SAH or SHA grant (see above), **and**
- Are living temporarily in a family member’s home that needs changes to meet your needs

If you qualify for an SAH grant, you can get up to $35,593 through the TRA grant program for FY 2018.

If you qualify for an SHA grant, you can get up to $6,355 through the TRA grant program for FY 2018.

</div>

### How do I get an SAH, SHA, or TRA grant?

You’ll need to apply for a grant. 

**You can apply in 1 of 3 ways:**

#### Apply online

Apply through eBenefits. <br>
[Go to eBenefits]( https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/homepage).

#### Apply by mail

Fill out an Application in Acquiring Specially Adapted Housing or Special Home Adaptation Grant (VA Form 26-4555). <br>
[Download VA Form 26-4555](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-26-4555-ARE.pdf).

Mail it to your nearest regional loan center. <br>
[Find a regional loan center near you](https://www.benefits.va.gov/HOMELOANS/contact_rlc_info.asp).

If you have trouble accessing the form, call us toll-free at <a href="tel:+1-800-827-1000">1-800-827-1000</a>, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>) to have a claim form mailed to you.

#### Apply in person

Fill out VA Form 26-4555 and bring it to your nearest VA regional office. To find a regional office near you:
- [Use our online locator tool](https://www.va.gov/directory/guide/home.asp), **or**
- Call us at <a href="tel:+1-800-827-1000">1-800-827-1000</a>.

### Need help?

<a href="mailto:sahinfo.vbaco@va.gov">Email a Specially Adapted Housing (SAH) staff member</a>

Or, call an SAH staff member at <a href="tel:+18778273702">1-877-827-3702</a>.
