content/pages/pension/aid-attendance-housebound.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Aid and Attendance or Housebound Allowance
concurrence: ""
order: 3
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you need help with your daily activities, or you’re housebound, you may qualify for Aid and Attendance or Housebound allowances in addition to your pension benefits. Find out if you can get these monthly payments added to the amount of your monthly pension.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### Can I get Aid and Attendance or Housebound benefits?

**You may qualify for Aid and Attendance** if you get a VA pension and:

- You need another person to help you perform daily activities, like bathing, feeding, and dressing, **or**
- You have to stay in bed—or spend a large portion of the day in bed—because of illness, **or**
- You are a patient in a nursing home due to the loss of mental or physical abilities related to a disability, **or**
- Your eyesight is limited (even with glasses or contact lenses you have only 5/200 or less in both eyes; or concentric contraction of the visual field to 5 degrees or less)

**You may qualify for Housebound benefits** if you get a VA pension and you spend most of your time in your home because of a permanent disability (a disability that doesn’t go away). 

**Note:** You can’t get Aid and Attendance benefits and Housebound benefits at the same time.

#### Who’s covered:
- Qualified Veterans
- Qualified surviving spouses 

</div>

### How do I get this benefit?

There are 2 ways you can get this benefit:

#### Write to your Pension Management Center (PMC)

You can write to the PMC for your state. [Find your PMC](/pension/pension-management-center/). 

Include this information: 
- Evidence, like a doctor’s report, that shows you need Aid and Attendance or Housebound care, or VA Form 21-2680  (Examination for Housebound Status or Permanent Need for Regular Aid and Attendance), which your doctor can fill out. [Download VA Form 21-2680](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21-2680-ARE.pdf). 
- Details about what you normally do during the day and how you get places
- Details that help show what kind of illness, injury, or mental or physical disability affects your ability to do things, like take a bath, on your own 

#### Apply in person

You can bring your information to a regional benefit office near you. [Find a regional benefit office](/facilities/). 

### How long does it take VA to make a decision?

It depends. We process claims in the order we receive them, unless a claim requires priority processing.

Commit message:

**at least one of the following is true**

content/pages/pension/aid-attendance-housebound.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Aid and Attendance or Housebound Allowance
concurrence: ""
order: 3
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you need help with your daily activities, or you’re housebound, you may qualify for Aid and Attendance or Housebound allowances in addition to your pension benefits. Find out if you can get these monthly payments added to the amount of your monthly pension.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### Can I get Aid and Attendance or Housebound benefits?

**You may qualify for Aid and Attendance** if you get a VA pension and **at least one of the following is true**:

- You need another person to help you perform daily activities, like bathing, feeding, and dressing, **or**
- You have to stay in bed—or spend a large portion of the day in bed—because of illness, **or**
- You are a patient in a nursing home due to the loss of mental or physical abilities related to a disability, **or**
- Your eyesight is limited (even with glasses or contact lenses you have only 5/200 or less in both eyes; or concentric contraction of the visual field to 5 degrees or less)

**You may qualify for Housebound benefits** if you get a VA pension **and** you spend most of your time in your home because of a permanent disability (a disability that doesn’t go away). 

**Note:** You can’t get Aid and Attendance benefits and Housebound benefits at the same time.

#### Who’s covered:
- Qualified Veterans
- Qualified surviving spouses 

</div>

### How do I get this benefit?

There are 2 ways you can get this benefit:

#### Write to your Pension Management Center (PMC)

You can write to the PMC for your state. <br>
[Find your PMC](/pension/pension-management-center/). 

Include this information: 
- Evidence, like a doctor’s report, that shows you need Aid and Attendance or Housebound care, or VA Form 21-2680  (Examination for Housebound Status or Permanent Need for Regular Aid and Attendance), which your doctor can fill out. <br>
[Download VA Form 21-2680](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21-2680-ARE.pdf). 
- Details about what you normally do during the day and how you get places
- Details that help show what kind of illness, injury, or mental or physical disability affects your ability to do things, like take a bath, on your own 

#### Apply in person

You can bring your information to a regional benefit office near you. <br>
[Find a regional benefit office](/facilities/). 

### How long does it take VA to make a decision?

It depends. We process claims in the order we receive them, unless a claim requires priority processing.
