content/pages/pension/eligibility.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Pension Benefits Eligibility
concurrence:
order: 1
children: pensionEligibility
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you’re a wartime Veteran who meets certain age or disability requirements, and your income and net worth are within certain limits, you may qualify for monthly payments through our Veterans Pension program. Find out if you can get this benefit.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### Can I get Veterans pension benefits from VA?

You may be able to get pension benefits if you were discharged from service under conditions other than dishonorable and:

- You started on active duty before September 8, 1980, and you served at least 90 days on active duty with at least 1 day during wartime, **or**
- You started on active duty as an enlisted person after September 7, 1980, and served at least 24 months or the full period for which you were called or ordered to active duty (with some exceptions) with at least 1 day during wartime, **or**
- You were an officer and started on active duty after October 16, 1981, and you hadn’t previously served on active duty for at least 24 months

**And:**

- Your yearly family income and net worth meet certain limits set by Congress. Your net worth includes all personal property you own (except your house, your car, and most home furnishings), minus any debt you owe. Your net worth includes the net worth of your spouse. [Find out about Veterans pension rates](/pension/rates/).

**And at least one of these is true:**

- You’re at least 65 years old, **or**
- You have a permanent and total disability, **or**
- You’re a patient in a nursing home for long-term care because of a disability, **or**
- You’re getting Social Security Disability Insurance or Supplemental Security Income

#### Who’s covered?

Veterans.

If you’re a surviving spouse or a child of a deceased Veteran with wartime service, please check our Survivors Pension page to see if you qualify for pension benefits. [Learn more about the Survivors Pension program](/pension/survivors-pension/).

</div>

### Ready to apply? 

Fill out an Application for Pension (VA Form 21P-527EZ). <br>
Download [VA Form 21P-527EZ](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21P-527EZ-ARE.pdf).

**Note:** Attach all the supporting documents (evidence) to the end of the form.

You can turn in your application and evidence in 1 of 3 ways:

**By mail** <br>
Mail the application to the Pension Management Center (PMC) for your state. <br> 
[Find your PMC](/pension/pension-management-center/).

**In person** <br>
Bring your application to a regional benefit office near you. <br> 
[Find a regional benefit office](/facilities/).

**With the help of a trained professional** <br>
You can work with a trained professional called an accredited representative to get help applying for VA pension benefits. <br> 
[Get help filing a claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).

[Learn more about the application process](/pension/apply/). <br>

[Find out how to apply for the Survivors Pension program](/pension/survivors-pension/). <br>

Commit message:

Content wip discharge link on eligibility pages (#7263)
* adding less than honorable question

* adding edits

* additional edits

* Update eligibility.md

* adding less than honorable question

* adding less than honorable question

* revising less than honorable question

* adding less than honorable question

* added br tag

* working on discharge link

* Update eligibility.md

* working on discharge content

* formatting

* working on discharge link

* Update eligibility.md

* Update eligibility.md

* Adding question re: mental health & mst services

* adding anchor links

* adding anchor link

* adding anchor link

* adding h4 tag

* updating discharge link language

* incorporating new discharge link language

* editing discharge wizard link

* editing discharge wizard link

* editing discharge wizard link

* Update eligibility.md

* adding discharge wizard link language

* editing discharge link language

* adding discharge link language

* adding discharge link language

* moving discharge question into blue box

* removing note re: health care

* coding tweaks

* fixing spacing

* editing dishonorable language

* Update eligibility.md

* minor copy tweak

* minor copy tweak

* minor copy tweak

* minor copy tweak

* minor copy tweak

* Update eligibility.md

* minor copy tweak

* minor copy tweak

* minor copy tweak

* Add break tag to disability elig

* disability tweak

* Add break tag to HC elig

* Add break tag to Edu elig

* Add break tag to Pension elig

* Add break tag to burials elig

* Add break tag to VR&E elig

* Added break tag to home loans elig

* Update eligibility.md

* Add break tag to life insurance s-dvi page

content/pages/pension/eligibility.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Pension Benefits Eligibility
concurrence:
order: 1
children: pensionEligibility
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you’re a wartime Veteran who meets certain age or disability requirements, and your income and net worth are within certain limits, you may qualify for monthly payments through our Veterans Pension program. Find out if you can get this benefit.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### Can I get Veterans pension benefits from VA?

You may be able to get pension benefits if you didn't receive a dishonorable discharge and:

- You started on active duty before September 8, 1980, and you served at least 90 days on active duty with at least 1 day during wartime, **or**
- You started on active duty as an enlisted person after September 7, 1980, and served at least 24 months or the full period for which you were called or ordered to active duty (with some exceptions) with at least 1 day during wartime, **or**
- You were an officer and started on active duty after October 16, 1981, and you hadn’t previously served on active duty for at least 24 months

**And:**

- Your yearly family income and net worth meet certain limits set by Congress. Your net worth includes all personal property you own (except your house, your car, and most home furnishings), minus any debt you owe. Your net worth includes the net worth of your spouse. [Find out about Veterans pension rates](/pension/rates/).

**And at least one of these is true:**

- You’re at least 65 years old, **or**
- You have a permanent and total disability, **or**
- You’re a patient in a nursing home for long-term care because of a disability, **or**
- You’re getting Social Security Disability Insurance or Supplemental Security Income

<br>

#### Who’s covered?

Veterans.

If you’re a surviving spouse or a child of a deceased Veteran with wartime service, please check our Survivors Pension page to see if you qualify for pension benefits. [Learn more about the Survivors Pension program](/pension/survivors-pension/).

<br>

### What should I do if I received an other than honorable, bad conduct, or dishonorable discharge?

If you've received one of these discharge statuses, you may not be eligible for VA benefits.

<br>

**There are 2 ways you can try to qualify:**

[Find out how to apply for a discharge upgrade](/discharge-upgrade-instructions/).<br/>
[Learn about the VA Character of Discharge review process](/discharge-upgrade-instructions/#other-options).

</div>

### Ready to apply? 

Fill out an Application for Pension (VA Form 21P-527EZ). <br>
Download [VA Form 21P-527EZ](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21P-527EZ-ARE.pdf).

**Note:** Attach all the supporting documents (evidence) to the end of the form.

You can turn in your application and evidence in 1 of 3 ways:

**By mail** <br>
Mail the application to the Pension Management Center (PMC) for your state. <br> 
[Find your PMC](/pension/pension-management-center/).

**In person** <br>
Bring your application to a regional benefit office near you. <br> 
[Find a regional benefit office](/facilities/).

**With the help of a trained professional** <br>
You can work with a trained professional called an accredited representative to get help applying for VA pension benefits. <br> 
[Get help filing a claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).

[Learn more about the application process](/pension/apply/). <br>

[Find out how to apply for the Survivors Pension program](/pension/survivors-pension/). <br>
