content/pages/pension/survivors-pension.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Survivors Pension
concurrence: "" 
children: pensionSurvivors
order: 4
---

<div class="va-introtext">

Survivors pension is a tax-free monetary benefit. If you’re a surviving spouse or child of a deceased Veteran with wartime service, and your income and net worth meet certain limits set by Congress, you may be able to get this benefit. Find out if you qualify. 

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### Can I get this benefit as a surviving spouse?

You may be able to get this benefit if you haven’t remarried after the Veteran’s death, and if the deceased Veteran was discharged from service under conditions other than dishonorable, and:

- Entered active duty on or before September 7, 1980, and served at least 90 days on active military service, with at least 1 day during a wartime period, **or**

- Entered active duty after September 7, 1980, and served at least 24 months or the full period for which called or ordered to active duty (with some exceptions), with at least 1 day during a wartime period **or**

- Was an officer and started on active duty after October 16, 1981, and hadn’t previously served on active duty for at least 24 months

**And:**

- Your yearly family income and net worth meet certain limits set by Congress. Your net worth equals the value of everything you own (except your house, your car, and most home furnishings), minus any debt you owe.

### Can I get this benefit as the child of a deceased wartime Veteran?

You may be able to get this benefit if you’re unmarried and: 
- Under age 18, **or**
- Under age 23 and attending a VA-approved school, **or**
- Unable to care for yourself due to a disability that happened before age 18

</div>

### Ready to apply? 

You can apply in 1 of 3 ways:

#### Apply by mail

Fill out an Application for DIC, Death Pension, and/or Accrued Benefits (VA Form 21-534EZ). <br>
[Download VA Form 21-534EZ](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21P-534EZ-ARE.pdf). 

Mail it to the Pension Management Center (PMC) for your state. <br>
[Find your PMC](/pension/pension-management-center/). 

#### Work with a trained professional

You can work with a trained professional called an accredited representative to get help applying for survivors pension benefits. <br>
[Get help filing your claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).

#### Apply in person

Bring your application to a regional benefit office near you. <br>
[Find a regional benefit office](/facilities/). 

### How long does it take VA to make a decision?

It depends. We process claims in the order we received them, unless a claim requires priority processing.

Commit message:

**at least one of the following is true for the Veteran**

content/pages/pension/survivors-pension.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Survivors Pension
concurrence: "" 
children: pensionSurvivors
order: 4
---

<div class="va-introtext">

Survivors pension is a tax-free monetary benefit. If you’re a surviving spouse or child of a deceased Veteran with wartime service, and your income and net worth meet certain limits set by Congress, you may be able to get this benefit. Find out if you qualify. 

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### Can I get this benefit as a surviving spouse?

You may be able to get this benefit if you haven’t remarried after the Veteran’s death, and if the deceased Veteran was discharged from service under conditions other than dishonorable, and **at least one of the following is true for the Veteran**:

- The Veteran entered active duty on or before September 7, 1980, and served at least 90 days on active military service, with at least 1 day during a wartime period, **or**

- The Veteran entered active duty after September 7, 1980, and served at least 24 months or the full period for which you were called or ordered to active duty (with some exceptions), with at least 1 day during a wartime period **or**

- The Veteran was an officer and started on active duty after October 16, 1981, and hadn’t previously served on active duty for at least 24 months

**And:**

- Your yearly family income and net worth meet certain limits set by Congress. Your net worth equals the value of everything you own (except your house, your car, and most home furnishings), minus any debt you owe.

### Can I get this benefit as the child of a deceased wartime Veteran?

You may be able to get this benefit if you’re unmarried and **at least one of the following is true for you**: 
- You're under age 18, **or**
- You're under age 23 and attending a VA-approved school, **or**
- You're unable to care for yourself due to a disability that happened before age 18

</div>

### Ready to apply? 

You can apply in 1 of 3 ways:

#### Apply by mail

Fill out an Application for DIC, Death Pension, and/or Accrued Benefits (VA Form 21-534EZ). <br>
[Download VA Form 21-534EZ](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21P-534EZ-ARE.pdf). 

Mail it to the Pension Management Center (PMC) for your state. <br>
[Find your PMC](/pension/pension-management-center/). 

#### Work with a trained professional

You can work with a trained professional called an accredited representative to get help applying for survivors pension benefits. <br>
[Get help filing your claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).

#### Apply in person

Bring your application to a regional benefit office near you. <br>
[Find a regional benefit office](/facilities/). 

### How long does it take VA to make a decision?

It depends. We process claims in the order we received them, unless a claim requires priority processing.
