content/pages/disability-benefits/after-you-apply/VA-claim-exam.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: VA Claim Exam (C&P Exam)
display_title: What to Expect During your Claim Exam
order: 3
plainlanguage: 11-02-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
children: disabilityAfterYouApply
majorlinks:
  - heading: More information about disability ratings and payments
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/after-you-apply/date/
      title: Effective Date of Disability
      description: "Find out when you’ll start getting your disability payments."
    - url: /disability-benefits/after-you-apply/what-happens-after-rating/
      title: What to Expect After You Get a Disability Rating
      description: "Find out what happens after you get your decision notice with your rating."
relatedlinks:
  - heading: Other VA benefits you may want to explore
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/
      title: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
      description: If your service-connected disability limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required. 
---

<div class="va-introtext">

After you file your disability benefits claim, we may ask you to have a claim exam (also known as a compensation and pension, or C&P, exam). 

This exam will help us rate your disability. Your rating will be based on how severe your disability is—and will affect how much disability compensation you’ll receive. Compensation may include things like monthly payments and enrollment in the VA health care program. 

Get answers to commonly asked questions about the VA claim exam below. 
 

</div>

<div class="usa-alert usa-alert-warning va-alert">
<div class="usa-alert-body">

##### Be sure not to miss your scheduled exam.

If you miss your exam, we may not be able to reschedule you right away, and your claim may be delayed while you wait for a new appointment. Or, if you don’t reschedule, we may need to rate your claim “as-is.” This means we’ll base our decision about your disability benefits only on the evidence we have in your file, which may not be enough.

</div>
</div>

<br>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### Does everyone who files a claim need to have a VA claim exam?

No. We’ll ask you to have a claim exam only if we need more information to decide your claim. 

If you have enough medical evidence in your file to support your claim, we won't ask you to have a claim exam. Medical evidence may include doctor and hospital reports, test results, and other documents.

### How to schedule your exam

#### How will you contact me to schedule the exam?

The staff at your local VA medical center or a local doctor’s office that we partner with will contact you. They’ll either send you a letter by mail with the date and time of your exam, or call you to find a time that works for you.

Make sure both the VA regional office and the VA medical center near you have your up-to-date address, phone number, and email address so you get your exam notice in time.

#### What should I do when I receive my exam letter or phone call?

Call the number provided right away to confirm the time and location of your exam. It’s important not to miss your scheduled exam, so you’ll want to double check that you have the right place and time.

#### What if I can’t make it to the scheduled exam?

If you can’t make it to your appointment, let us know right away. You can reschedule, but this may delay your claim.

#### To reschedule your appointment: 

- Call 1-800-827-1000, **or**
- Go to your nearest regional benefit office. <br>
  [Find your local regional benefit office](https://www.benefits.va.gov/benefits/offices.asp).	


### What should I bring to my VA claim exam?

Bring to your exam any new non-VA medical records that you haven't given us yet. These might include records from a recent surgery or illness. 

### What happens at a VA claim exam?

A VA claim exam isn’t like a normal medical exam or other VA health care visits. The doctor won’t treat you for any illness or injury, give you referrals to other health care providers, or prescribe medicine. That’s because the purpose of the exam is to gather information that will help us make a decision on your claim. Each exam is different, depending on the information we need. 

During your exam, the doctor may do any or all of these things:

 -	Review your claim file with you

 -	Ask you questions based on the medical records in your claim file. This may include questions from the Disability Benefits Questionnaire about each service-connected condition you’re claiming. <br>
[Take a look at the Disability Benefits Questionnaire (DBQ)](http://benefits.va.gov/COMPENSATION/dbq_ListByDBQFormName.asp).

 - Perform a basic physical exam

 - Ask you to get other tests—like X-rays or blood work—if needed

If you have any questions about what’s happening during your exam, feel free to ask the doctor. But keep in mind that the doctor’s job is to examine you, not to make any decisions about your claim. They won’t be able to answer questions about the claims process.

After your exam, the doctor will write up a report and send it to a VA claims processor to be added to your claim file.

### How long will the exam take?

Your exam may be very short, or it may last an hour or more. It all depends on the conditions you’ve claimed and whether we need more information to make a decision. 

For example, the required questions the doctor asks about a knee injury may take only a few minutes. But the questions for a more complex illness or injury could take much longer. A mental health evaluation usually lasts 2 to 4 hours.

It’s important to remember that your in-person visit is only one part of the claim review process. Your doctor will also spend time outside the exam carefully reviewing your records.

### Who will examine me?

Either a VA doctor or a non-VA doctor who we’ve contracted will do the exam. You can also have your own doctor examine you and fill out the necessary forms. <br>
[Get instructions for your doctor to fill out exam forms](http://benefits.va.gov/COMPENSATION/dbq_veteraninstruct.asp).

### Will I get my exam results at the VA claim exam?

No. The doctor will give the exam results to VA claims processors. Our claims processors will decide your claim based on these results, plus your other medical and military records.

If you have questions about the claims process, call your nearest VA regional office. <br>
[Find contact information for your nearest VA regional office](https://www.va.gov/directory/guide/division.asp?dnum=3&isFlash=0).

### What should I do if I miss my VA claim exam?

If you miss your claim exam, contact us right away to let us know why you didn’t make it so we can help you figure out what to do next.

If you have what we consider to be a good reason for missing your exam (called “good cause”), we’ll work with you to reschedule your exam. Examples of this might be an illness or the death of someone in your immediate family.

[Find contact information for your nearest VA regional office](https://www.va.gov/directory/guide/division.asp?dnum=3&isFlash=0).


### After your exam

#### What happens after my exam?

We’ll review all the evidence in your file, assign your disability rating, and send you a decision notice (a letter letting you know your disability rating). 

Every claim is different, but it usually takes us about 3 to 4 months to process a claim from start to finish. The processing time for your claim depends on how complex your claim is and how many conditions you’ve claimed. 

[See our most recent estimate for the average number of days to complete a claim](/disability-benefits/apply/).

[Sign in to Vets.gov to track your claim](link to Sign In).


#### Can I get a copy of the report from my claim exam?

Yes. You can get a copy of the final report from the claim exam in any of these ways:

 - [Contact your nearest VA regional office](https://www.va.gov/directory/guide/division.asp?dnum=3&isFlash=0), **or**
 - Call us at 1-800-827-1000 and request an appointment to view your file


#### What information does the VA claims processor have when making a decision?   

Your VA claims processor will review the medical records you’ve given us, statements from you and others about your claim, and your military medical and personnel records. 

#### Will I ever need to have another claim exam?

We may ask you to have a claim exam if you appeal your disability benefits decision. <br>
[Learn more about appealing a decision](/disability-benefits/claims-appeal/).

[Find out more about VA claim exams](https://www.benefits.va.gov/COMPENSATION/claimexam.asp).



<div markdown="0"><br></div>

Commit message:

### What if I have more questions about my exam?

content/pages/disability-benefits/after-you-apply/VA-claim-exam.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: VA Claim Exam (C&P Exam)
display_title: What to Expect During your Claim Exam
order: 3
plainlanguage: 11-02-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
children: disabilityAfterYouApply
majorlinks:
  - heading: More information about disability ratings and payments
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/after-you-apply/date/
      title: Effective Date of Disability
      description: "Find out when you’ll start getting your disability payments."
    - url: /disability-benefits/after-you-apply/what-happens-after-rating/
      title: What to Expect After You Get a Disability Rating
      description: "Find out what happens after you get your decision notice with your rating."
relatedlinks:
  - heading: Other VA benefits you may want to explore
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/
      title: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
      description: If your service-connected disability limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required. 
---

<div class="va-introtext">

After you file your disability benefits claim, we may ask you to have a claim exam (also known as a compensation and pension, or C&P, exam). 

This exam will help us rate your disability. Your rating will be based on how severe your disability is—and will affect how much disability compensation you’ll receive. Compensation may include things like monthly payments and enrollment in the VA health care program. 

Get answers to commonly asked questions about the VA claim exam below. 
 

</div>

<div class="usa-alert usa-alert-warning va-alert">
<div class="usa-alert-body">

##### Be sure not to miss your scheduled exam.

If you miss your exam, we may not be able to reschedule you right away, and your claim may be delayed while you wait for a new appointment. Or, if you don’t reschedule, we may need to rate your claim “as-is.” This means we’ll base our decision about your disability benefits only on the evidence we have in your file, which may not be enough.

</div>
</div>

<br>

<div class="feature" markdown=“1”>

### Does everyone who files a claim need to have a VA claim exam?

No. We’ll ask you to have a claim exam only if we need more information to decide your claim. 

If you have enough medical evidence in your file to support your claim, we won't ask you to have a claim exam. Medical evidence may include doctor and hospital reports, test results, and other documents.

### How to schedule your exam

#### How will you contact me to schedule the exam?

The staff at your local VA medical center or a local doctor’s office that we partner with will contact you. They’ll either send you a letter by mail with the date and time of your exam, or call you to find a time that works for you.

Make sure both the VA regional office and the VA medical center near you have your up-to-date address, phone number, and email address so you get your exam notice in time.

#### What should I do when I receive my exam letter or phone call?

Call the number provided right away to confirm the time and location of your exam. It’s important not to miss your scheduled exam, so you’ll want to double check that you have the right place and time.

#### What if I can’t make it to the scheduled exam?

If you can’t make it to your appointment, let us know right away. You can reschedule, but this may delay your claim.

#### To reschedule your appointment: 

- Call 1-800-827-1000, **or**
- Go to your nearest regional benefit office. <br>
  [Find your local regional benefit office](https://www.benefits.va.gov/benefits/offices.asp).	


### What should I bring to my VA claim exam?

Bring to your exam any new non-VA medical records that you haven't given us yet. These might include records from a recent surgery or illness. 

### What happens at a VA claim exam?

A VA claim exam isn’t like a normal medical exam or other VA health care visits. The doctor won’t treat you for any illness or injury, give you referrals to other health care providers, or prescribe medicine. That’s because the purpose of the exam is to gather information that will help us make a decision on your claim. Each exam is different, depending on the information we need. 

During your exam, the doctor may do any or all of these things:

 -	Review your claim file with you

 -	Ask you questions based on the medical records in your claim file. This may include questions from the Disability Benefits Questionnaire about each service-connected condition you’re claiming. <br>
[Take a look at the Disability Benefits Questionnaire (DBQ)](http://benefits.va.gov/COMPENSATION/dbq_ListByDBQFormName.asp).

 - Perform a basic physical exam

 - Ask you to get other tests—like X-rays or blood work—if needed

If you have any questions about what’s happening during your exam, feel free to ask the doctor. But keep in mind that the doctor’s job is to examine you, not to make any decisions about your claim. They won’t be able to answer questions about the claims process.

After your exam, the doctor will write up a report and send it to a VA claims processor to be added to your claim file.

### How long will the exam take?

Your exam may be very short, or it may last an hour or more. It all depends on the conditions you’ve claimed and whether we need more information to make a decision. 

For example, the required questions the doctor asks about a knee injury may take only a few minutes. But the questions for a more complex illness or injury could take much longer. A mental health evaluation usually lasts 2 to 4 hours.

It’s important to remember that your in-person visit is only one part of the claim review process. Your doctor will also spend time outside the exam carefully reviewing your records.

### Who will examine me?

Either a VA doctor or a non-VA doctor who we’ve contracted will do the exam. You can also have your own doctor examine you and fill out the necessary forms. <br>
[Get instructions for your doctor to fill out exam forms](http://benefits.va.gov/COMPENSATION/dbq_veteraninstruct.asp).

### Will I get my exam results at the VA claim exam?

No. The doctor will give the exam results to VA claims processors. Our claims processors will decide your claim based on these results, plus your other medical and military records.

If you have questions about the claims process, call your nearest VA regional office. <br>
[Find contact information for your nearest VA regional office](https://www.va.gov/directory/guide/division.asp?dnum=3&isFlash=0).

### What should I do if I miss my VA claim exam?

If you miss your claim exam, contact us right away to let us know why you didn’t make it so we can help you figure out what to do next.

If you have what we consider to be a good reason for missing your exam (called “good cause”), we’ll work with you to reschedule your exam. Examples of this might be an illness or the death of someone in your immediate family.

[Find contact information for your nearest VA regional office](https://www.va.gov/directory/guide/division.asp?dnum=3&isFlash=0).


### After your exam

#### What happens after my exam?

We’ll review all the evidence in your file, assign your disability rating, and send you a decision notice (a letter letting you know your disability rating). 

Every claim is different, but it usually takes us about 3 to 4 months to process a claim from start to finish. The processing time for your claim depends on how complex your claim is and how many conditions you’ve claimed. 

[See our most recent estimate for the average number of days to complete a claim](/disability-benefits/apply/).

[Sign in to Vets.gov to track your claim](link to Sign In).


#### Can I get a copy of the report from my claim exam?

Yes. You can get a copy of the final report from the claim exam in any of these ways:

 - [Contact your nearest VA regional office](https://www.va.gov/directory/guide/division.asp?dnum=3&isFlash=0), **or**
 - Call us at 1-800-827-1000 and request an appointment to view your file


#### What information does the VA claims processor have when making a decision?   

Your VA claims processor will review the medical records you’ve given us, statements from you and others about your claim, and your military medical and personnel records. 

#### Will I ever need to have another claim exam?

We may ask you to have a claim exam if you appeal your disability benefits decision. <br>
[Learn more about appealing a decision](/disability-benefits/claims-appeal/).

[Find out more about VA claim exams](https://www.benefits.va.gov/COMPENSATION/claimexam.asp).

### What if I have more questions about my exam?

- Our women’s health website gives you the latest information about how we help women Veterans stay well. [Visit the women’s health website](https://www.womenshealth.va.gov/).
- Our Center for Women Veterans website tells you about health care and other benefits and programs for women Veterans. [Visit the Center for Women Veterans website](https://www.va.gov/womenvet/).
- Our Women Veterans Call Center representatives can help you understand your VA benefits and find the right services to fit your needs. Get free, confidential guidance. Call the Center at 1-855-VA-WOMEN (<a href="tel:+1-855-829-6636">1-855-829-6636</a>), Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>), and Saturday, 8:00 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>).




<div markdown="0"><br></div>
