content/pages/disability-benefits/after-you-apply/what-happens-after-rating.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: What to Expect after You Get a Disability Rating
display_title: After You Get a Disability Rating
plainlanguage: 11-02-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
---

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/FAQPage">
<div itemprop="description" class="va-introtext">

If you got a decision notice from us that confirms your disability rating (the rating that measures the severity of your disability), you may be able to get disability compensation or benefits. Find out what benefits you can get.

</div>

<div class="call-out usa-content" markdown="1">

Disability compensation may include financial compensation (payments) as well as other benefits—like health care or job training.

If you haven’t gotten your decision notice:

- [Check your status](/track-claims/), **or**
- [Contact your local regional benefit office](https://www.benefits.va.gov/benefits/offices.asp), **or**
- Call us at <a href="tel:+1-800-827-1000">1-800-827-1000</a>, **or**
- [Contact us online](https://iris.custhelp.com/app/ask/session/L3RpbWUvMTQ4MTgwOTI0My9zaWQvbnNTbnViNm4%3D)
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">When will I get my first payment?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

If your decision notice shows at least a 10% disability rating, you’ll get your first payment within 15 days. We’ll pay you either by direct deposit or check. If you don’t get a payment after 15 days, please call the Veterans Help Line at <a href="tel:+1-800-827-1000">1-800-827-1000</a>, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>).

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">What if I disagree with my disability rating?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

If you disagree with your disability rating, you can file an appeal. You’ll need to do this within 1 year of getting your decision notice. [Learn about how to file an appeal](/disability-benefits/claims-appeal/).

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">How do I get other benefits?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

- **For Health Care:** If you served on active duty—and were discharged from the military under conditions other than dishonorable—you may be able to get VA health care. This includes access to VA doctors and care, plus medical equipment, prosthetics, and prescriptions. [Apply for VA health care](/health-care/apply/).
- **For Life Insurance:** If you’re in good health other than your disability caused by service in the military, you can buy Service-Disabled Veterans’ Insurance (S-DVI)—a government life insurance policy. [Apply for S-DVI online](https://www.benefits.va.gov/insurance/s-dvi.asp). Or, call <a href="tel:+18006698477">1-800-669-8477</a>, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>).
- **For Education Benefits:** You can get VA support for college or job training under special programs. Or, talk with a VA education counselor to find out what benefits you may be able to get. [Learn about education benefits](/education/).
- **For Dependent Benefits:** If you’re 30% or more disabled due to a disability caused by service in the military, you can get financial support and benefits for your qualified dependents. There are 2 ways to register:
  - [Register through eBenefits](https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/about/feature?feature=dependent-compensation), or
  - [Register through your local VA office](/facilities/).
- **For Other Benefits:** Check with your local or state VA offices for other benefits you may be able to get—like help with buying a home or making changes to your home to make it more accessible, or help with getting a job. [Find a VA office near you](https://www.va.gov/statedva.htm).

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name"> How do I get benefits that cover specific disabilities?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

- **If you have a 100% disability rating**, you may be able to get:
  - [Dental care](/disability-benefits/conditions/special-claims/dentistry/), **and**
  - [Access to commissaries and exchanges](http://www.militaryonesource.mil/on-and-off-base-living/commissaries-exchanges)
- **If you can’t work due to your disability caused by service in the military**—even without a 100% rating—you can apply for individual unemployability. [Learn about individual unemployability](/disability-benefits/conditions/special-claims/individual-unemployability/).
- **If you need special clothing because of your injuries**, you may be able to get money to buy new clothes. [Learn about the annual clothing allowance benefit](/disability-benefits/conditions/special-claims/clothing/).

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

### Keep in touch
It’s important to update your information with VA when you have a new address, a change to your marital status, or any other life change that could affect your rating or payment. If your disability gets worse, you can file a claim for an increase in benefits.

Update your information in 1 of 2 ways:
- [Make the change directly in eBenefits](https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/about/feature?feature=dependent-compensation), **or**
- [Contact your local VA office or eligibility office](/facilities/)

Commit message:

Content/WIP/Disability meta tags (#7370)
* added meta tags to 20 files

content/pages/disability-benefits/after-you-apply/what-happens-after-rating.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: What to Expect after You Get a Disability Rating
display_title: After You Get a Disability Rating
description: After you receive your VA disability rating, find out when you'll get your first VA disability check (sometimes called "VA disability back pay") and what to do if you disagree with your rating.
plainlanguage: 11-02-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
---

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/FAQPage">
<div itemprop="description" class="va-introtext">

If you got a decision notice from us that confirms your disability rating (the rating that measures the severity of your disability), you may be able to get disability compensation or benefits. Find out what benefits you can get.

</div>

<div class="call-out usa-content" markdown="1">

Disability compensation may include financial compensation (payments) as well as other benefits—like health care or job training.

If you haven’t gotten your decision notice:

- [Check your status](/track-claims/), **or**
- [Contact your local regional benefit office](https://www.benefits.va.gov/benefits/offices.asp), **or**
- Call us at <a href="tel:+1-800-827-1000">1-800-827-1000</a>, **or**
- [Contact us online](https://iris.custhelp.com/app/ask/session/L3RpbWUvMTQ4MTgwOTI0My9zaWQvbnNTbnViNm4%3D)
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">When will I get my first payment?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

If your decision notice shows at least a 10% disability rating, you’ll get your first payment within 15 days. We’ll pay you either by direct deposit or check. If you don’t get a payment after 15 days, please call the Veterans Help Line at <a href="tel:+1-800-827-1000">1-800-827-1000</a>, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>).

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">What if I disagree with my disability rating?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

If you disagree with your disability rating, you can file an appeal. You’ll need to do this within 1 year of getting your decision notice. [Learn about how to file an appeal](/disability-benefits/claims-appeal/).

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">How do I get other benefits?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

- **For Health Care:** If you served on active duty—and were discharged from the military under conditions other than dishonorable—you may be able to get VA health care. This includes access to VA doctors and care, plus medical equipment, prosthetics, and prescriptions. [Apply for VA health care](/health-care/apply/).
- **For Life Insurance:** If you’re in good health other than your disability caused by service in the military, you can buy Service-Disabled Veterans’ Insurance (S-DVI)—a government life insurance policy. [Apply for S-DVI online](https://www.benefits.va.gov/insurance/s-dvi.asp). Or, call <a href="tel:+18006698477">1-800-669-8477</a>, Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (<abbr title="eastern time">ET</abbr>).
- **For Education Benefits:** You can get VA support for college or job training under special programs. Or, talk with a VA education counselor to find out what benefits you may be able to get. [Learn about education benefits](/education/).
- **For Dependent Benefits:** If you’re 30% or more disabled due to a disability caused by service in the military, you can get financial support and benefits for your qualified dependents. There are 2 ways to register:
  - [Register through eBenefits](https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/about/feature?feature=dependent-compensation), or
  - [Register through your local VA office](/facilities/).
- **For Other Benefits:** Check with your local or state VA offices for other benefits you may be able to get—like help with buying a home or making changes to your home to make it more accessible, or help with getting a job. [Find a VA office near you](https://www.va.gov/statedva.htm).

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name"> How do I get benefits that cover specific disabilities?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

- **If you have a 100% disability rating**, you may be able to get:
  - [Dental care](/disability-benefits/conditions/special-claims/dentistry/), **and**
  - [Access to commissaries and exchanges](http://www.militaryonesource.mil/on-and-off-base-living/commissaries-exchanges)
- **If you can’t work due to your disability caused by service in the military**—even without a 100% rating—you can apply for individual unemployability. [Learn about individual unemployability](/disability-benefits/conditions/special-claims/individual-unemployability/).
- **If you need special clothing because of your injuries**, you may be able to get money to buy new clothes. [Learn about the annual clothing allowance benefit](/disability-benefits/conditions/special-claims/clothing/).

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

### Keep in touch
It’s important to update your information with VA when you have a new address, a change to your marital status, or any other life change that could affect your rating or payment. If your disability gets worse, you can file a claim for an increase in benefits.

Update your information in 1 of 2 ways:
- [Make the change directly in eBenefits](https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/about/feature?feature=dependent-compensation), **or**
- [Contact your local VA office or eligibility office](/facilities/)
