content/pages/disability-benefits/after-you-apply.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: After You Apply for Disability Benefits
display_title: After You Apply
order: 3
plainlanguage: 11-02-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
children: disabilityAfterYouApply
majorlinks:
  - heading: More information about disability ratings and payments
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/after-you-apply/date/
      title: Effective Date of Disability
      description: "Find out when you’ll start getting your disability payments."
    - url: /disability-benefits/after-you-apply/what-happens-after-rating/
      title: What to Expect After You Get a Disability Rating
      description: "Find out what happens after you get your decision notice with your rating."
relatedlinks:
  - heading: Other VA benefits you may want to explore
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/
      title: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
      description: If your service-connected disability limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required. 
---

<div class="va-introtext">

Find out what happens to your claim after you apply for disability benefits. 

</div>

### How long does it take VA to make a decision?

<div class="card information" markdown="0">
<span class="number">107.5 days</span>
<span class="description">Average number of days to complete disability-related claims in January 2018</span>
</div>

#### The amount of time it takes to review your claim depends on:

- The type of claim you filed
- How many injuries or disabilities you claimed and how complex they are
- How long it takes us to collect the evidence needed to decide your claim

### What should I do while I wait?

You don’t need to do anything unless we send you a letter asking for more information. If we schedule any exams for you, be sure not to miss them. You can check the status of your claim online. The time frame you see there may vary based on how complex your claim is.

<a class="usa-button-primary" href="/track-claims">Track the Status of Your Claim</a>

<div markdown="0"><br></div>

### What happens after I apply?

<ol class="process">
<li class="process-step list-one">

#### Claim Received

You’ll see a notice from us in your claims list within about 1 hour if you applied online with VONAPP Direct Connect. If you applied through the U.S. mail, you’ll need to allow for mailing time plus 1 week before you get a note telling you we have your claim.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-two">

#### Initial Review

A Veterans Service Representative (VSR) will review your claim. It’ll move to step 3 if we don’t need any more evidence to support it.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-three">

#### Evidence Gathering, Review, and Decision

During this step, the VSR will do 3 things:

- Ask for evidence from you, health care providers, governmental agencies, or others
- Review the evidence
- Make a decision

If we need more evidence during the review, your claim may return to this step more than once.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-four"> 

#### Preparation for Notification

We’ll get your entire claim decision packet ready to be mailed.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-five">

#### Claim Complete

We’ll send you a packet by U.S. mail that includes details of the decision on your claim. Please allow 7 to 10 business days for your packet to arrive before contacting a VA call center.

</li>
</ol>

### What should I do if I disagree with your decision on my claim?

If you disagree with our decision, you can appeal it. The decision notice will have instructions on how to file an appeal. [File an appeal now](/disability-benefits/claims-appeal/).

<div markdown="0"><br></div>

Commit message:

tweaking copy for claim for increase

content/pages/disability-benefits/after-you-apply.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: After You Apply for Disability Benefits
display_title: After You Apply
order: 3
plainlanguage: 11-02-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
children: disabilityAfterYouApply
majorlinks:
  - heading: More information about disability ratings and payments
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/after-you-apply/date/
      title: Effective Date of Disability
      description: "Find out when you’ll start getting your disability payments."
    - url: /disability-benefits/after-you-apply/what-happens-after-rating/
      title: What to Expect After You Get a Disability Rating
      description: "Find out what happens after you get your decision notice with your rating."
relatedlinks:
  - heading: Other VA benefits you may want to explore
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/
      title: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
      description: If your service-connected disability limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required. 
---

<div class="va-introtext">

Find out what happens to your claim after you apply for disability benefits. 

</div>

### How long does it take VA to make a decision?

<div class="card information" markdown="0">
<span class="number">107.5 days</span>
<span class="description">Average number of days to complete disability-related claims in January 2018</span>
</div>

#### The amount of time it takes to review your claim depends on:

- The type of claim you filed
- How many injuries or disabilities you claimed and how complex they are
- How long it takes us to collect the evidence needed to decide your claim

### What should I do while I wait?

You don’t need to do anything unless we send you a letter asking for more information. If we schedule any exams for you, be sure not to miss them. You can check the status of your claim online. The time frame you see there may vary based on how complex your claim is.

<a class="usa-button-primary" href="/track-claims">Track the Status of Your Claim</a>

<div markdown="0"><br></div>

### What happens after I apply?

<ol class="process">
<li class="process-step list-one">

#### Claim Received

If you applied online with VONAPP, you’ll see a notice from us in your claims list within about 1 hour. If you applied through the U.S. mail, you’ll need to allow for mailing time plus 1 week before you get a note telling you we have your claim. If you applied online for a claim for increase, you’ll get a confirmation message from us after submitting the form. 

</li>

<li class="process-step list-two">

#### Initial Review

A Veterans Service Representative (VSR) will review your claim. It’ll move to step 3 if we don’t need any more evidence to support it.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-three">

#### Evidence Gathering, Review, and Decision

During this step, the VSR will do 3 things:

- Ask for evidence from you, health care providers, governmental agencies, or others
- Review the evidence
- Make a decision

If we need more evidence during the review, your claim may return to this step more than once.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-four"> 

#### Preparation for Notification

We’ll get your entire claim decision packet ready to be mailed.

</li>

<li class="process-step list-five">

#### Claim Complete

We’ll send you a packet by U.S. mail that includes details of the decision on your claim. Please allow 7 to 10 business days for your packet to arrive before contacting a VA call center.

</li>
</ol>

### What should I do if I disagree with your decision on my claim?

If you disagree with our decision, you can appeal it. The decision notice will have instructions on how to file an appeal. [File an appeal now](/disability-benefits/claims-appeal/).

<div markdown="0"><br></div>
