content/pages/disability-benefits/apply.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Disability Benefits Application Process
display_title: Application Process
order: 2
plainlanguage: 11-02-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
children: disabilityApply
majorlinks:
  - heading: More information about filing disability claims
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/claim-types/
      title: Types of Disability Claims 
      description: Learn about standard claims, reopened claims, secondary claims, and more. 
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/evidence/
      title: Evidence (Supporting Documents)
      description: Find out which supporting documents you’ll need to give us so we can decide your claim.    
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/one-year/
      title: Disabilities That Appear Within 1 Year After Discharge
      description: Find out if you can get disability benefits if you have signs of an illness within a year after being discharged from service.
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/help/
      title: Get Help Filing a Claim
      description: Find out how to work with a trained professional called an accredited representative to file your claim.
relatedlinks:
  - heading: Other VA benefits you may want to explore
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/
      title: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
      description: If your service-connected disability limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required. 
---
<div itemscope itemtype ="http://schema.org/HowTo">
<div class="va-introtext" itemprop="description">

You can apply for disability benefits online. We’ve listed all the steps below so when you’re ready, you can apply for this tax-free monetary benefit. Find out how to apply. 

</div>

### Prepare

- [Check your eligibility](/disability-benefits/eligibility/).
- Gather the supporting documents listed below that you’ll need to file a disability claim.
- Be sure your claim is filled out completely and you have all the supporting documents ready to send in along with your claim. This will help us process your claim quickly. [Learn more about fully developed claims](/disability-benefits/apply/claim-types/fully-developed-claim/).

<div markdown="0"><br></div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1" itemprop="steps" itemscope itemtype ="http://schema.org/HowToSection">

<h4 itemprop="name">What documents do I need to apply?</h4>
<div itemprop="itemListElement">

For the first disability claim you file, please provide:

- Discharge papers (DD214 or other separation documents) 
- Service treatment records [(Order service records through the National Archives)](https://www.archives.gov/veterans/military-service-records)

For all disability claims, please provide:

- VA medical records and hospital records that relate to your claimed illnesses or injuries
- Private medical records and hospital reports that relate to your claimed illnesses or injuries

</div>
</div>


<div itemprop="steps" itemscope itemtype ="http://schema.org/HowToSection">

<h4 itemprop="name">Ready to apply?</h4>
<div itemprop="itemListElement">

<a class="usa-button-primary va-button-primary" href="https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/about/feature?feature=disability-compensation">Go to eBenefits to Apply</a>

</div>
</div>
<div markdown="0"><br></div>

<div itemprop="steps" itemscope itemtype ="http://schema.org/HowToSection">

<h3 itemprop="name">Other ways to apply</h3>
<div itemprop="itemListElement">

#### With the help of a trained professional

You can work with a trained professional who can help you file a claim.  [Get help filing your claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/index.html).

</div>
</div>

#### By mail

Apply by mail using an Application for Disability Compensation and Related Compensation Benefits (VA Form 21-526EZ). [Download VA Form 21-526EZ](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21-526EZ-ARE.pdf).

Print the form, fill it out, and send it to this address:

<p class="va-address-block">
Department of Veterans Affairs<br>
Claims Intake Center<br>
PO Box 4444<br>
Janesville, WI 53547-4444<br>
</p>

#### In person

Bring your application to a regional benefit office near you. [Find a regional benefit office](/facilities/).

<div itemprop="steps" itemscope itemtype ="http://schema.org/HowToSection">

<h3 itemprop="name">What happens after I apply?</h3>
<div itemprop="itemListElement">

[Find out what happens after you apply](/disability-benefits/after-you-apply/).

You don’t need to do anything while you’re waiting unless we send you a letter asking for more information. If we schedule exams for you, be sure not to miss them.

<a class="usa-button-primary" href="/track-claims">Track the Status of Your Claim</a>

<span id="days-to-complete-claim"></span>
#### How long does it take VA to make a decision?

<div class="card information" markdown="0">
<span class="number">101.5 days</span>
<span class="description">Average number of days to complete disability-related claims in February 2018</span>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div markdown="0"><br></div>

Commit message:

Content/WIP/Disability meta tags (#7370)
* added meta tags to 20 files

content/pages/disability-benefits/apply.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Disability Benefits Application Process
display_title: Application Process
description: Find out how to apply online for VA disability compensation, and what documents you'll need to start your application today. 
order: 2
plainlanguage: 11-02-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
children: disabilityApply
majorlinks:
  - heading: More information about filing disability claims
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/claim-types/
      title: Types of Disability Claims 
      description: Learn about standard claims, reopened claims, secondary claims, and more. 
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/evidence/
      title: Evidence (Supporting Documents)
      description: Find out which supporting documents you’ll need to give us so we can decide your claim.    
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/one-year/
      title: Disabilities That Appear Within 1 Year After Discharge
      description: Find out if you can get disability benefits if you have signs of an illness within a year after being discharged from service.
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/help/
      title: Get Help Filing a Claim
      description: Find out how to work with a trained professional called an accredited representative to file your claim.
relatedlinks:
  - heading: Other VA benefits you may want to explore
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/
      title: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
      description: If your service-connected disability limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required. 
---
<div itemscope itemtype ="http://schema.org/HowTo">
<div class="va-introtext" itemprop="description">

You can apply for disability benefits online. We’ve listed all the steps below so when you’re ready, you can apply for this tax-free monetary benefit. Find out how to apply. 

</div>

### Prepare

- [Check your eligibility](/disability-benefits/eligibility/).
- Gather the supporting documents listed below that you’ll need to file a disability claim.
- Be sure your claim is filled out completely and you have all the supporting documents ready to send in along with your claim. This will help us process your claim quickly. [Learn more about fully developed claims](/disability-benefits/apply/claim-types/fully-developed-claim/).

<div markdown="0"><br></div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1" itemprop="steps" itemscope itemtype ="http://schema.org/HowToSection">

<h4 itemprop="name">What documents do I need to apply?</h4>
<div itemprop="itemListElement">

For the first disability claim you file, please provide:

- Discharge papers (DD214 or other separation documents) 
- Service treatment records [(Order service records through the National Archives)](https://www.archives.gov/veterans/military-service-records)

For all disability claims, please provide:

- VA medical records and hospital records that relate to your claimed illnesses or injuries
- Private medical records and hospital reports that relate to your claimed illnesses or injuries

</div>
</div>


<div itemprop="steps" itemscope itemtype ="http://schema.org/HowToSection">

<h4 itemprop="name">Ready to apply?</h4>
<div itemprop="itemListElement">

<a class="usa-button-primary va-button-primary" href="https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/about/feature?feature=disability-compensation">Go to eBenefits to Apply</a>

</div>
</div>
<div markdown="0"><br></div>

<div itemprop="steps" itemscope itemtype ="http://schema.org/HowToSection">

<h3 itemprop="name">Other ways to apply</h3>
<div itemprop="itemListElement">

#### With the help of a trained professional

You can work with a trained professional who can help you file a claim.  [Get help filing your claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/index.html).

</div>
</div>

#### By mail

Apply by mail using an Application for Disability Compensation and Related Compensation Benefits (VA Form 21-526EZ). [Download VA Form 21-526EZ](https://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21-526EZ-ARE.pdf).

Print the form, fill it out, and send it to this address:

<p class="va-address-block">
Department of Veterans Affairs<br>
Claims Intake Center<br>
PO Box 4444<br>
Janesville, WI 53547-4444<br>
</p>

#### In person

Bring your application to a regional benefit office near you. [Find a regional benefit office](/facilities/).

<div itemprop="steps" itemscope itemtype ="http://schema.org/HowToSection">

<h3 itemprop="name">What happens after I apply?</h3>
<div itemprop="itemListElement">

[Find out what happens after you apply](/disability-benefits/after-you-apply/).

You don’t need to do anything while you’re waiting unless we send you a letter asking for more information. If we schedule exams for you, be sure not to miss them.

<a class="usa-button-primary" href="/track-claims">Track the Status of Your Claim</a>

<span id="days-to-complete-claim"></span>
#### How long does it take VA to make a decision?

<div class="card information" markdown="0">
<span class="number">101.5 days</span>
<span class="description">Average number of days to complete disability-related claims in February 2018</span>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div markdown="0"><br></div>
