content/pages/disability-benefits/eligibility.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Disability Benefits Eligibility
display_title: Eligibility
order: 1
plainlanguage: 11-02-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
children: disabilityEligibility
majorlinks:
  - heading:
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/eligibility/ratings/
      title: How VA Assigns Disability Ratings
      description: Learn how we assign severity ratings and how they affect your disability payments.
    - url: /disability-benefits/eligibility/presumed-disability/
      title: Presumed Disability
      description: Find out why some chronic (long-lasting) illnesses, or illnesses caused by contact with toxic chemicals or other hazardous materials, may qualify you for disability benefits.
relatedlinks:
  - heading: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/eligibility/
      title: VR&E Eligibility
      description: If your service-connected disability limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required. 
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/ides/
      title: Accessing VR&E through the Integrated Disability Evaluation System (IDES)
      description: If you've been referred to IDES to determine if you're medically unfit for duty due to a service-connected disability, find out how to access VR&E services as quickly as possible.
---
<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/FAQPage">
<div itemprop="description"  class="va-introtext">

Find out if you can get disability compensation for an illness or injury that was caused by—or got worse because of—your active military service. Compensation may include financial support and other benefits like health care.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">
<h3 itemprop="name">Can I get disability benefits from VA?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

You may be able to get disability benefits if you have a current illness or injury (known as a condition) that affects your body or mind and:

- You got sick or injured while serving in the military—and can link this condition to your illness or injury, **or**
- You had an illness or injury before you joined the military—and serving made it worse

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">Who’s covered?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

- Veterans
- Qualified dependents

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">
  
<h3 itemprop="name">What should I do if I received an other than honorable, bad conduct, or dishonorable discharge?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

If you've received one of these discharge statuses, you may not be eligible for VA benefits. 

<br>

**There are 2 ways you can try to qualify:**

[Find out how to apply for a discharge upgrade](/discharge-upgrade-instructions/).<br/>
[Learn about the VA Character of Discharge review process](/discharge-upgrade-instructions/#other-options).

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div markdown="0"><br></div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">Ready to apply?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

<a class="usa-button-primary va-button-primary" href="https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/about/feature?feature=disability-compensation">Go to eBenefits to Apply</a>

[Learn about the application process](/disability-benefits/apply/).

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">What conditions are covered by these benefits?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

You may be able to get benefits for conditions such as:

- Chronic (long-lasting) back pain resulting in a current diagnosed back disability
- Breathing problems resulting from a current lung condition or lung disease
- Severe hearing loss
- Scar tissue
- Loss of range of motion (problems moving your body)
- Ulcers
- Cancers caused by contact with toxic chemicals or other dangers

You may also be able to get benefits for:
- Traumatic brain injury (TBI)
- Post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
- Depression
- Anxiety

[Get more information about conditions that may be covered](https://www.benefits.va.gov/compensation/dbq_ListBySymptom.asp).

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div markdown="0"><br></div>
</div>

Commit message:

Content/WIP/Disability meta tags (#7370)
* added meta tags to 20 files

content/pages/disability-benefits/eligibility.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Disability Benefits Eligibility
display_title: Eligibility
description: Find out if you're eligible for VA disability compensation or other benefits for a condition related to your military service. 
order: 1
plainlanguage: 11-02-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
children: disabilityEligibility
majorlinks:
  - heading:
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/eligibility/ratings/
      title: How VA Assigns Disability Ratings
      description: Learn how we assign severity ratings and how they affect your disability payments.
    - url: /disability-benefits/eligibility/presumed-disability/
      title: Presumed Disability
      description: Find out why some chronic (long-lasting) illnesses, or illnesses caused by contact with toxic chemicals or other hazardous materials, may qualify you for disability benefits.
relatedlinks:
  - heading: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/eligibility/
      title: VR&E Eligibility
      description: If your service-connected disability limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required. 
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/ides/
      title: Accessing VR&E through the Integrated Disability Evaluation System (IDES)
      description: If you've been referred to IDES to determine if you're medically unfit for duty due to a service-connected disability, find out how to access VR&E services as quickly as possible.
---
<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/FAQPage">
<div itemprop="description"  class="va-introtext">

Find out if you can get disability compensation for an illness or injury that was caused by—or got worse because of—your active military service. Compensation may include financial support and other benefits like health care.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">
<h3 itemprop="name">Can I get disability benefits from VA?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

You may be able to get disability benefits if you have a current illness or injury (known as a condition) that affects your body or mind and:

- You got sick or injured while serving in the military—and can link this condition to your illness or injury, **or**
- You had an illness or injury before you joined the military—and serving made it worse

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">Who’s covered?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

- Veterans
- Qualified dependents

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">
  
<h3 itemprop="name">What should I do if I received an other than honorable, bad conduct, or dishonorable discharge?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

If you've received one of these discharge statuses, you may not be eligible for VA benefits. 

<br>

**There are 2 ways you can try to qualify:**

[Find out how to apply for a discharge upgrade](/discharge-upgrade-instructions/).<br/>
[Learn about the VA Character of Discharge review process](/discharge-upgrade-instructions/#other-options).

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div markdown="0"><br></div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">Ready to apply?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

<a class="usa-button-primary va-button-primary" href="https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/about/feature?feature=disability-compensation">Go to eBenefits to Apply</a>

[Learn about the application process](/disability-benefits/apply/).

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Question">

<h3 itemprop="name">What conditions are covered by these benefits?</h3>
<div itemprop="acceptedAnswer" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Answer">
<div itemprop="text">

You may be able to get benefits for conditions such as:

- Chronic (long-lasting) back pain resulting in a current diagnosed back disability
- Breathing problems resulting from a current lung condition or lung disease
- Severe hearing loss
- Scar tissue
- Loss of range of motion (problems moving your body)
- Ulcers
- Cancers caused by contact with toxic chemicals or other dangers

You may also be able to get benefits for:
- Traumatic brain injury (TBI)
- Post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
- Depression
- Anxiety

[Get more information about conditions that may be covered](https://www.benefits.va.gov/compensation/dbq_ListBySymptom.asp).

</div>
</div>
</div>
<div markdown="0"><br></div>
</div>
