content/pages/disability-benefits/index.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Disability Benefits
permalink: /disability-benefits/index.html
source: http://www.benefits.va.gov/compensation/
plainlanguage: 11-2-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: level2-index
majorlinks:
  - heading: Apply for Disability Benefits
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/eligibility/
      title: Eligibility
      description: Find out if you can get disability benefits, like financial support and health care, from VA.
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/
      title: Application Process
      description: Apply online now, or find out how to apply in person or get help from a trained professional.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/
      title: Conditions
      description: Discover which illnesses or injuries qualify you for benefits.
    - url: /track-claims/
      title: Check Claim and Appeal Status
      description: Track the status of your disability claims and appeals.
    - url: /disability-benefits/claims-appeal/
      title: Appeals Process
      description: Find out what to do if you disagree with your disability rating decision.
  - heading: More VA Benefits
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/
      title: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
      description: If your service-connected disability limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required.
    - url: /housing-assistance/adaptive-housing-grants/
      title: Adaptive Housing Grants
      description: Find out if you may be eligible for a grant to buy or change a home to meet your needs and help you live more independently with your service-connected disability.
---

<div class="va-introtext">

You may be able to get VA disability benefits if you got sick or injured, or developed a mental health condition (like PTSD) while serving in the military. You may also qualify if your service made a condition worse that you had before you began serving. Even when a condition doesn’t appear until years after your service ends, if it resulted from an injury or illness that happened during active military service (called “service connected”), you may qualify for monthly VA disability payments. Find out if you can get disability compensation and other benefits like health care.


</div>

<a class="usa-button-primary va-button-primary" href="https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/about/feature?feature=disability-compensation">Go to eBenefits to Apply</a>

Commit message:

Content/WIP/Disability meta tags (#7370)
* added meta tags to 20 files

content/pages/disability-benefits/index.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Disability Benefits
description: Find out if you can get VA disability benefits for an illness or injury, including a mental health condition, related to your military service. 
permalink: /disability-benefits/index.html
source: http://www.benefits.va.gov/compensation/
plainlanguage: 11-2-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: level2-index
majorlinks:
  - heading: Apply for Disability Benefits
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/eligibility/
      title: Eligibility
      description: Find out if you can get disability benefits, like financial support and health care, from VA.
    - url: /disability-benefits/apply/
      title: Application Process
      description: Apply online now, or find out how to apply in person or get help from a trained professional.
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/
      title: Conditions
      description: Discover which illnesses or injuries qualify you for benefits.
    - url: /track-claims/
      title: Check Claim and Appeal Status
      description: Track the status of your disability claims and appeals.
    - url: /disability-benefits/claims-appeal/
      title: Appeals Process
      description: Find out what to do if you disagree with your disability rating decision.
  - heading: More VA Benefits
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/
      title: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
      description: If your service-connected disability limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required.
    - url: /housing-assistance/adaptive-housing-grants/
      title: Adaptive Housing Grants
      description: Find out if you may be eligible for a grant to buy or change a home to meet your needs and help you live more independently with your service-connected disability.
---

<div class="va-introtext">

You may be able to get VA disability benefits if you got sick or injured, or developed a mental health condition (like PTSD) while serving in the military. You may also qualify if your service made a condition worse that you had before you began serving. Even when a condition doesn’t appear until years after your service ends, if it resulted from an injury or illness that happened during active military service (called “service connected”), you may qualify for monthly VA disability payments. Find out if you can get disability compensation and other benefits like health care.


</div>

<a class="usa-button-primary va-button-primary" href="https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/about/feature?feature=disability-compensation">Go to eBenefits to Apply</a>
