---
title: C-123 Aircraft
template: 4-action-page
---

Contaminated C-123 Aircraft
: 1969-1986
{:.panel-list .plain}

C-123 aircraft were used to spray Agent Orange during the Vietnam War. However, after being contaminated with chemical residue, they continued to fly throughout the world and did so through 1986. If you flew on or worked with these planes in Vietnam, or other locations, you may have been exposed.


<div class="call-out" markdown="1">
### Are you eligible for disability compensation?

#### Active-Duty Servicemembers

Yes, if:

- You have an [Agent Orange–related disease](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/diseases/).
- You served in a regular Air Force unit location where a contaminated C-123 was assigned.
- You regularly and repeatedly had contact with contaminated C-123 aircraft through flight, ground, or medical duties.

This list of military units and Air Force Specialty codes will help you figure out if [your unit was exposed](http://www.benefits.va.gov/compensation/docs/AO_C123_AFSpecialityCodesUnits.pdf).

<br>

#### Reservists

Yes, if:

- You have an [Agent Orange–related disease](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/diseases/).
- You were assigned to flight, ground, or medical crew duties at any of the following locations:
  - **Lockbourne/Rickenbacker Air Force Base** in Ohio, 1969-1986 (906th and 907th Tactical Air Groups or 355th and 356th Tactical Airlift Squadrons)
  - **Westover Air Force Base** in Massachusetts, 1972-1982 (731st Tactical Air Squadron and 74th Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron, or 901st Organizational Maintenance Squadron)
  - **Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania International Airport**, 1972-1982 (758th Airlift Squadron)


This list of military units, Air Force specialty codes, and dates of service will help you [figure out if your unit was exposed](http://www.benefits.va.gov/compensation/docs/AO_C123_AFSpecialityCodesUnits.pdf).

</div>

### How to Apply for Benefits Online

This is the fastest way to file a claim and receive your decision:

<ol class="process" markdown="0">
<li class="step one wow fadeIn animated" markdown="1">
Go to [eBenefits](https://www.ebenefits.va.gov/ebenefits/homepage).
</li>

<li class="step two wow fadeIn animated" markdown="1">
Select a disability benefit.
</li>

<li class="step three wow fadeIn animated" markdown="1">
After you select a disability on your eBenefits form, make sure you type C-123 next to the disability in the text box.
</li>

<li class="step last four wow fadeIn animated animated" markdown="0">

<p>If you have any of the following material, upload it with your online application:</p>

<div class="call-out">

<ul>
  <li>Discharge, separation papers (DD214 or equivalent)</li>
  <li>USAF Form 2096 (unit where assigned at the time of the training action)</li>
  <li>USAF Form 5 (aircraft flight duties)</li>
  <li>USAF Form 781 (aircraft maintenance duties)</li>
  <li>Dependency records (marriage certificate and children’s birth certificates)</li>
  <li>Medical evidence (doctor and hospital reports)</li>
</ul>

</div>

</li>
</ol>

### How to Apply for Benefits by Mail or Fax

<ol class="process" markdown="0">
<li class="step one wow fadeIn animated" markdown="1">
File by mail by printing and filling out this form: [VA Form 21-526EZ](http://www.vba.va.gov/pubs/forms/VBA-21-526EZ-ARE.pdf).
</li>

<li class="step two wow fadeIn animated" markdown="0">
<p>Make sure you include each C-123-related disability in Section I, Block 11 on the form, and submit copies of any of the material noted above—if you have it—with your paper claim.</p>
<div class="call-out">

<ul>
  <li>Discharge or separation papers (DD214 or equivalent)</li>
  <li>USAF Form 2096 (unit where assigned at the time of the training action)</li>
  <li>USAF Form 5 (aircraft flight duties)</li>
  <li>USAF Form 781 (aircraft maintenance duties)</li>
  <li>Dependency records (marriage certificate and children’s birth certificates)</li>
  <li>Medical evidence (doctor and hospital reports)</li>
</ul>

</div>

</li>

<li class="step three last wow fadeIn animated animated" markdown="0">

<p>Mail claims to:</p>
<p>Department of Veterans Affairs Claims Intake Center</p>
<p>Attention: C123 Claims<br />
PO Box 5088<br />
Janesville, WI<br />
53547-5088</p>

<p>Fax claims to:<br />
<span class="tel">608-373-6694</span></p>

</li>

</ol>

