content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/thailand-military-bases.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Thailand Military Bases
concurrence: incomplete
plainlanguage: 10-26-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
order: 2
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you had regular security duty on the fenced-in perimeters of a U.S. military base in Thailand or Royal Thai Air Force Bases between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975, you may have had contact with Agent Orange. The U.S. military used this toxic chemical to clear trees and plants during the Vietnam War. Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits for illnesses believed to be caused by contact with Agent Orange.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get disability benefits if you have an illness believed to be caused by Agent Orange and you served perimeter duty: 
- On RTAF bases in Thailand (including U-Tapao, Ubon, Nakhon Phanom, Udorn, Takhli, Korat, or Don Muang), **or**
- While stationed on a U.S. Army installation in Thailand

### Who’s covered?
- Veterans
- Qualified dependents
- Qualified survivors
</div>

### What kind of disability benefits can I get?
- Heath care
- Compensation (payments)
- [An Agent Orange Registry health exam](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/registry-health-exam/)

-----

### How do I get these benefits?
You’ll need to apply for benefits. When you apply, you’ll have to show that you had contact with Agent Orange while serving in the military. 

To prove that you had contact with Agent Orange during your Thailand service, you’ll need to send us supporting documents that show you had regular perimeter security duty, such as:
- Daily work duty logs, **or**
- Performance evaluation reports, **or**
- Job records (for example, records showing you worked as a dog handler or a member of a security squadron or military police unit)

[Apply for benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

### Need help?
Want to connect with a trained professional who can help you with VA-related claims? [Find an accredited representative](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).

### Get more information
Want to know more about benefits for Veterans with illnesses believed to be caused by contact with Agent Orange? [Learn about Agent Orange benefits](https://www.publichealth.va.gov/exposures/agentorange/benefits/index.asp).

Commit message:

"If any of the following..."

content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/thailand-military-bases.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Thailand Military Bases
concurrence: incomplete
plainlanguage: 10-26-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
order: 2
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you had regular security duty on the fenced-in perimeters of a U.S. military base in Thailand or Royal Thai Air Force Bases between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975, you may have had contact with Agent Orange. The U.S. military used this toxic chemical to clear trees and plants during the Vietnam War. Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits for illnesses believed to be caused by contact with Agent Orange.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get disability benefits if you have an illness believed to be caused by Agent Orange and you served perimeter duty **in at least one of the following places**: 
- On RTAF bases in Thailand (including U-Tapao, Ubon, Nakhon Phanom, Udorn, Takhli, Korat, or Don Muang), **or**
- While stationed on a U.S. Army installation in Thailand

### Who’s covered?
- Veterans
- Qualified dependents
- Qualified survivors
</div>

### What kind of disability benefits can I get?
- Heath care
- Compensation (payments)
- [An Agent Orange Registry health exam](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/registry-health-exam/)

-----

### How do I get these benefits?
You’ll need to apply for benefits. When you apply, you’ll have to show that you had contact with Agent Orange while serving in the military. 

To prove that you had contact with Agent Orange during your Thailand service, you’ll need to send us supporting documents that show you had regular perimeter security duty, such as:
- Daily work duty logs, **or**
- Performance evaluation reports, **or**
- Job records (for example, records showing you worked as a dog handler or a member of a security squadron or military police unit)

[Apply for benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

### Need help?
Want to connect with a trained professional who can help you with VA-related claims? <br>
[Get help filing your claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).

### Get more information
Want to know more about benefits for Veterans with illnesses believed to be caused by contact with Agent Orange? <br>
[Learn about Agent Orange benefits](https://www.publichealth.va.gov/exposures/agentorange/benefits/index.asp).
