content/pages/education/after-you-apply.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: After You Apply for Education Benefits
display_title: After You Apply
plainlanguage: 11-02-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
collection: education
order: 3

relatedlinks:
  - heading: Other VA benefits you may want to explore
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/
      title: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
      description: If you have a service-connected disability that limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required.
---

<div class="va-introtext">

Getting a degree, certificate, or other professional license can help you make a sucessful transition from military to civilian life. Find out what happens after you apply for education benefits.

</div>

### How long does it take VA to make a decision?

<div class="card information" markdown="0">
<span class="number">30 days</span>
<span class="description">Average time to process education claims</span>
</div>

### What happens after I apply?

You’ll get a Certificate of Eligibility (COE), or award letter, in the mail if we've approved your application. Bring this to the VA certifying official at your school.

You can also start looking at future careers and job opportunities. [Learn about career-development resources](/employment/).

<div markdown="0"><br></div>

Commit message:

Put page back up in Education section (#7220)
* Revert "Delete outdated edu & counseling page (#7010)"

This reverts commit edb176388b5abd10abcfd76587cff892a5907058.

* adding chapter 36

* revising eligibility lead-in

* removing "chapter 36

* adding chapter 36

* Tweak to link label: edu-after-you-apply

content/pages/education/after-you-apply.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: After You Apply for Education Benefits
display_title: After You Apply
plainlanguage: 11-02-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
collection: education
order: 3

relatedlinks:
  - heading: Other VA benefits you may want to explore
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/
      title: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
      description: If you have a service-connected disability that limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required. 
---

<div class="va-introtext">

Getting a degree, certificate, or other professional license can help you make a sucessful transition from military to civilian life. Find out what happens after you apply for education benefits. 

</div>

### How long does it take VA to make a decision?

<div class="card information" markdown="0">
<span class="number">30 days</span>
<span class="description">Average time to process education claims</span>
</div>

### What should I do while I wait?

The transition from military to civilian life can be challenging. We offer tools and counseling programs to help you make the most of your educational options. [Learn about educational and career couseling](/education/tools-programs/education-career-counseling/).

### What happens after I apply?

You’ll get a Certificate of Eligibility (COE), or award letter, in the mail if we've approved your application. Bring this to the VA certifying official at your school.

You can also start looking at future careers and job opportunities. [Learn about career-development resources](/employment/).

<div markdown="0"><br></div>
