content/pages/education/tools-programs.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Career Counseling
concurrence: incomplete
plainlanguage: 11-29-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
collection: education
children: educationToolsPrograms
order: 5
majorlinks:
  - heading:
    links:
    - url: /education/tools-programs/careerscope/
      title: CareerScope®
      description: Use CareerScope to help you figure out the best career path for you when you leave active service.
    - url: /education/tools-programs/principles-excellence-program/
      title: Principles of Excellence Program
      description: Learn about the guidelines for schools that get federal funding through programs such as the GI Bill.
    - url: /education/tools-programs/locate-a-school/
      title: Locate a School
      description: Find out which schools you can use your VA education benefits at before you apply.
relatedlinks:
  - heading: Other VA benefits you may want to explore
    links:
    - url: /employment/vocational-rehab-and-employment/
      title: Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E)
      description: If you have a service-connected disability that limits your ability to work or prevents you from working, find out if you can get VR&E benefits and services—like help exploring employment options and getting more training if required.
---

<div class="va-introtext">

Figuring out how to shift from military to civilian life can be hard. We offer tools and counseling programs to help you make the most of your options. Find out how we can help.

</div>

Commit message:

Put page back up in Education section (#7220)
* Revert "Delete outdated edu & counseling page (#7010)"

This reverts commit edb176388b5abd10abcfd76587cff892a5907058.

* adding chapter 36

* revising eligibility lead-in

* removing "chapter 36

* adding chapter 36

* Tweak to link label: edu-after-you-apply

content/pages/education/tools-programs.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Career Counseling
concurrence: incomplete
plainlanguage: 11-29-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
collection: education
children: educationToolsPrograms
order: 5
majorlinks:
  - heading:
    links:
    - url: /education/tools-programs/education-career-counseling/
      title: Educational and Career Counseling
      description: If you’re leaving active service soon, find out how to get free educational and career counseling (also called Chapter 36).
    - url: /education/tools-programs/careerscope/
      title: CareerScope®
      description: Use CareerScope to help you figure out the best career path for you when you leave active service.
    - url: /education/tools-programs/principles-excellence-program/
      title: Principles of Excellence Program
      description: Learn about the guidelines for schools that get federal funding through programs such as the GI Bill.
    - url: /education/tools-programs/locate-a-school/
      title: Locate a School
      description: Find out which schools you can use your VA education benefits at before you apply. 
---

<div class="va-introtext">

Figuring out how to shift from military to civilian life can be hard. We offer tools and counseling programs to help you make the most of your options. Find out how we can help.

</div>
