content/pages/housing-assistance/home-loans/loan-options/nadl.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Native American Direct Loan (NADL)
display_title: Native American Direct Loan
concurrence: 
order: 2
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you’re a Veteran, and either you or your spouse is Native American, our Native American Direct Loan (NADL) program may help you get a loan to buy, build, or improve a home on Federal Trust Land. You may also get a loan to refinance an existing NADL and reduce your interest rate. Find out if you qualify for a NADL—and how to apply.

</div>

<div class="feature">

### Can I get a NADL?

You may be able to get a NADL if you’re a Native American Veteran or a non–Native American Veteran married to a Native American, **and**:

- Your tribal government has an agreement—or Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)—with us detailing how the program will work on its Trust lands, **and**
-	You have a valid VA home loan Certificate of Eligibility (COE), **and**
-	You meet our credit standards, **and**
-	You have proof that you make enough money to cover the mortgage payments and other costs of owning a home, **and**
-	You’ll live in the home you’re using the NADL to buy, build, or improve

[Learn more about the MOU](https://www.benefits.va.gov/homeloans/nadl_mou.asp).

</div>

<br>

### Why might I want to get a NADL?

A NADL offers many benefits, including:

- **No down payment** required in most cases
- **No need for Private Mortgage Insurance (PMI)**, which is commonly charged to conventional loan borrowers 
- **Limited closing costs** (fees you pay for services and other costs related to getting a loan and buying a home)
- **A low-interest, 30-year fixed mortgage** (a fixed mortgage means your interest rate will stay the same over the full life of the loan)
- **A reusable benefit**, which means you can get more than one NADL to buy, build, or improve another residence in the future
- **The ability to borrow up to the FannieMae/FreddieMac conforming loan limit** on a no-down-payment loan in most areas—and more in some high-cost counties. You can borrow more than this amount if you want to make a down payment. [See current effective loan limits](https://www.benefits.va.gov/HOMELOANS/purchaseco_loan_limits.asp).

<br>

### How do I get a NADL?

<ol class="process">
<li class="process-step list-one">

#### Apply for a VA home loan Certificate of Eligibility (COE).
This certification confirms that you qualify for the VA home loan benefit. <br />
[Find out if you can get a COE based on your service history and duty status](/housing-assistance/home-loans/eligibility/). 
<br />
[Apply for your COE](/housing-assistance/home-loans/apply-for-certificate-of-eligibility/).

</li>

<li class="process-step list-two">

#### Contact the VA regional loan center for your state to begin the NADL process.
[Find your state’s VA regional loan center](https://www.benefits.va.gov/homeloans/contact_rlc_info.asp). 

</li>
</ol>

Commit message:

**and all of the following are true for you**

content/pages/housing-assistance/home-loans/loan-options/nadl.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Native American Direct Loan (NADL)
display_title: Native American Direct Loan
concurrence: 
order: 2
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you’re a Veteran, and either you or your spouse is Native American, our Native American Direct Loan (NADL) program may help you get a loan to buy, build, or improve a home on Federal Trust Land. You may also get a loan to refinance an existing NADL and reduce your interest rate. Find out if you qualify for a NADL—and how to apply.

</div>

<div class="feature">

### Can I get a NADL?

You may be able to get a NADL if you’re a Native American Veteran or a non–Native American Veteran married to a Native American, **and all of the following are true for you**:

- Your tribal government has an agreement—or Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)—with us detailing how the program will work on its Trust lands, **and**
-	You have a valid VA home loan Certificate of Eligibility (COE), **and**
-	You meet our credit standards, **and**
-	You have proof that you make enough money to cover the mortgage payments and other costs of owning a home, **and**
-	You’ll live in the home you’re using the NADL to buy, build, or improve

[Learn more about the MOU](https://www.benefits.va.gov/homeloans/nadl_mou.asp).

</div>

<br>

### Why might I want to get a NADL?

A NADL offers many benefits, including:

- **No down payment** required in most cases
- **No need for Private Mortgage Insurance (PMI)**, which is commonly charged to conventional loan borrowers 
- **Limited closing costs** (fees you pay for services and other costs related to getting a loan and buying a home)
- **A low-interest, 30-year fixed mortgage** (a fixed mortgage means your interest rate will stay the same over the full life of the loan)
- **A reusable benefit**, which means you can get more than one NADL to buy, build, or improve another residence in the future
- **The ability to borrow up to the FannieMae/FreddieMac conforming loan limit** on a no-down-payment loan in most areas—and more in some high-cost counties. You can borrow more than this amount if you want to make a down payment. <br>
[See current effective loan limits](https://www.benefits.va.gov/HOMELOANS/purchaseco_loan_limits.asp).

<br>

### How do I get a NADL?

<ol class="process">
<li class="process-step list-one">

#### Apply for a VA home loan Certificate of Eligibility (COE).
This certification confirms that you qualify for the VA home loan benefit. <br />
[Find out if you can get a COE based on your service history and duty status](/housing-assistance/home-loans/eligibility/). 
<br />
[Apply for your COE](/housing-assistance/home-loans/apply-for-certificate-of-eligibility/).

</li>

<li class="process-step list-two">

#### Contact the VA regional loan center for your state to begin the NADL process.
[Find your state’s VA regional loan center](https://www.benefits.va.gov/homeloans/contact_rlc_info.asp). 

</li>
</ol>
