content/pages/education/tools-programs/education-career-counseling.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Educational and Career Counseling 
plainlanguage: 11-28-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
concurrence: incomplete
order: 1
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you’re leaving active service soon, find out how to get free educational and career counseling (also called Chapter 36). 

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get educational and career counseling?

You can get these services if you’ll be discharged from active duty within 6 months or:
-	You were discharged from active duty not more than 1 year ago under conditions other than dishonorable, **and**
-	You qualify as a Veteran for educational assistance under a VA educational program. 

**Note:** Dependents who qualify for educational assistance may get these services under the following programs:
- [Post-9/11 GI Bill](/education/gi-bill/post-9-11/)
- [Fry Scholarship](/education/gi-bill/survivors-dependent-assistance/fry-scholarship/)
- [The Survivors’ and Dependents’ Educational Assistance Program (DEA)](/education/gi-bill/survivors-dependent-assistance/dependents-education/)

### Who’s covered? 

- Veterans
- Qualified dependents 

</div>

### What benefits can I get? 

-	Counseling to help you decide which civilian or military jobs you want
-	Educational and career counseling to help you find a training program or job
-	Academic and adjustment counseling to help you deal with issues that get in the way of your success in training or employment

-----

### How do I get these benefits? 

You’ll need to apply:

1. Log in to [eBenefits](https://www.ebenefits.va.gov).
2. Select “Apply.”
3. Select “Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Benefits.”
4. Apply for “Educational and Career Counseling.”<br /><br />

If you qualify, we’ll invite you to an orientation session at a VA regional office near you. You can also use CareerScope&reg; to find careers you might enjoy. [Learn more about CareerScope](/education/tools-programs/careerscope/).

Commit message:

Changing "other than dishonorable" language (#7699)
* Changing "other than dishonorable" language

* Other than dishonorable > without a dishonorable

* "Other than dishonorable" > "wasn't dishonorable"

* other than dishonorable > Didn't receive a

* other than dishonorable > didn't receive a

* Other than dishonorable > Didn't receive a

* other than dishonorable > didn't receive a

* other than dishonorable > didn't receive a

* pre-need "other than dishonorable" language

* register your business - other than dishonorable

* s-dvi - removed parentheses around "dishonorable"

* Camp Lejeune water - other than dishonorable

* what happens after rating-other than dishonorable

* ME review: education-career-counseling

* ME review: pre-need

* ME review: life ins s-dvi

* ME review: disability-conditions-camp-lejeune

* proofread fix

* proofread fix

content/pages/education/tools-programs/education-career-counseling.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Educational and Career Counseling 
plainlanguage: 11-28-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
concurrence: incomplete
order: 1
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you’re leaving active service soon, find out how to get free educational and career counseling (also called Chapter 36). 

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get educational and career counseling?

You can get these services if you’ll be discharged from active duty within 6 months or if you meet both of the requirements listed below.

**Both of these must be true. You:**
-	Separated from active duty not more than 1 year ago and didn't receive a dishonorable discharge, **and**
-	Qualify as a Veteran for educational assistance under a VA educational program. 

**Note:** Dependents who qualify for educational assistance may get these services under the following programs:
- [Post-9/11 GI Bill](/education/gi-bill/post-9-11/)
- [Fry Scholarship](/education/gi-bill/survivors-dependent-assistance/fry-scholarship/)
- [The Survivors’ and Dependents’ Educational Assistance Program (DEA)](/education/gi-bill/survivors-dependent-assistance/dependents-education/)

### Who’s covered? 

- Veterans
- Qualified dependents 

</div>

### What benefits can I get? 

-	Counseling to help you decide which civilian or military jobs you want
-	Educational and career counseling to help you find a training program or job
-	Academic and adjustment counseling to help you deal with issues that get in the way of your success in training or employment

-----

### How do I get these benefits? 

You’ll need to apply:

1. Log in to [eBenefits](https://www.ebenefits.va.gov).
2. Select “Apply.”
3. Select “Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Benefits.”
4. Apply for “Educational and Career Counseling.”<br /><br />

If you qualify, we’ll invite you to an orientation session at a VA regional office near you. You can also use CareerScope&reg; to find careers you might enjoy. [Learn more about CareerScope](/education/tools-programs/careerscope/).
