content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Agent Orange
plainlanguage: 10-21-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
children: disabilityConditionsAgentOrange
majorlinks:
  - heading: You may have had contact with Agent Orange if you served in any of these ways
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/c-123/
      title: On C-123 Airplanes
      description: Between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/thailand-military-bases/
      title: On Thailand Military Bases
      description: Between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/service-inside/
      title: In Vietnam or Korea
      description: Between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/service-outside/
      title: Outside of Vietnam or Korea
      description: Between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/test-storage/
      title: In Testing and Storage Areas Outside of Vietnam
      description: Between 1944 and a yet-to-be-determined date
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/navy-coast-guard/
      title: On U.S. Navy and Coast Guard Ships in Vietnam
      description: Between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/water-vietnam/
      title: In Waters in or near Vietnam
      description: Between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975
---

<div class="va-introtext">

The U.S. military used Agent Orange to clear plants and trees during the Vietnam War. If you served in or near Vietnam during the Vietnam Era—or in certain related jobs—you may have had contact with this toxic chemical. Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits for illnesses believed to be caused by Agent Orange.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get disability benefits if:

- You have an illness believed to be caused by Agent Orange, **and**
- You came into contact with Agent Orange while serving in the military

[See the list of Agent Orange‒related illnesses](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/diseases/).


#### Who’s covered?

- Veterans
- Qualified dependents

</div>

### What kind of disability benefits can I get?

- Health care
- Compensation (payments)

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. [Apply for disability benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

**Note:**
- If you have an illness believed to be caused by Agent Orange, you won’t need to show the problem started during—or got worse because of—your military service. [See the list of Agent Orange‒related illnesses](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/diseases/).
- If you have an illness that’s not on this list, but you believe it was caused by Agent Orange, you’ll need to show the problem started during—or got worse because of—your military service.


### Get more information

Do you think you may have had contact with Agent Orange or other herbicides while serving in the military? [Get an Agent Orange Registry Health Exam](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/registry-health-exam/).

Do you have non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (a type of cancer)? You can get VA support. [Learn about Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma and Agent Orange](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/non-hodgkins/).

Commit message:

Content/WIP/Disability meta tags (#7370)
* added meta tags to 20 files

content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Agent Orange
description: Find out if you can get VA disability benefits if you have an illness believed to be caused by contact with Agent Orange during your military service.
plainlanguage: 10-21-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Writing Act
template: detail-page
children: disabilityConditionsAgentOrange
majorlinks:
  - heading: You may have had contact with Agent Orange if you served in any of these ways
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/c-123/
      title: On C-123 Airplanes
      description: Between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/thailand-military-bases/
      title: On Thailand Military Bases
      description: Between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/service-inside/
      title: In Vietnam or Korea
      description: Between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/service-outside/
      title: Outside of Vietnam or Korea
      description: Between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/test-storage/
      title: In Testing and Storage Areas Outside of Vietnam
      description: Between 1944 and a yet-to-be-determined date
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/navy-coast-guard/
      title: On U.S. Navy and Coast Guard Ships in Vietnam
      description: Between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975
    - url: /disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/water-vietnam/
      title: In Waters in or near Vietnam
      description: Between January 9, 1962, and May 7, 1975
---

<div class="va-introtext">

The U.S. military used Agent Orange to clear plants and trees during the Vietnam War. If you served in or near Vietnam during the Vietnam Era—or in certain related jobs—you may have had contact with this toxic chemical. Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits for illnesses believed to be caused by Agent Orange.

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get disability benefits if:

- You have an illness believed to be caused by Agent Orange, **and**
- You came into contact with Agent Orange while serving in the military

[See the list of Agent Orange‒related illnesses](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/diseases/).


#### Who’s covered?

- Veterans
- Qualified dependents

</div>

### What kind of disability benefits can I get?

- Health care
- Compensation (payments)

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. [Apply for disability benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

**Note:**
- If you have an illness believed to be caused by Agent Orange, you won’t need to show the problem started during—or got worse because of—your military service. [See the list of Agent Orange‒related illnesses](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/diseases/).
- If you have an illness that’s not on this list, but you believe it was caused by Agent Orange, you’ll need to show the problem started during—or got worse because of—your military service.


### Get more information

Do you think you may have had contact with Agent Orange or other herbicides while serving in the military? [Get an Agent Orange Registry Health Exam](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/registry-health-exam/).

Do you have non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (a type of cancer)? You can get VA support. [Learn about Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma and Agent Orange](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/agent-orange/non-hodgkins/).
