content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/contaminated-drinking-water-at-camp-lejeune.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Contaminated Drinking Water at Camp Lejeune
source: http://benefits.va.gov/compensation/claims-postservice-exposures-camp_lejeune_water.asp
template: detail-page
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you served at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune or Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) New River in North Carolina, you may have had contact with contaminants in the drinking water there. Scientific and medical evidence has shown an association between exposure to these contaminants during military service and development of certain diseases later on. If you have qualifying service at Camp Lejeune and a current diagnosis of one of the conditions listed below, you may be able to get disability benefits.

</div>


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?


You may be able to get disability benefits if you served at Camp Lejeune or MCAS New River for at least 30 cumulative days from August 1953 through December 1987 and you meet both of the requirements listed below. 

**Both of these must be true:**

- You were discharged from the military under conditions other than dishonorable, **and**
- You have a diagnosis of one or more of these presumptive conditions:

  - Adult leukemia
  - Aplastic anemia and other myelodysplastic syndromes
  - Bladder cancer
  - Kidney cancer
  - Liver cancer
  - Multiple myeloma
  - Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
  - Parkinson’s disease

### Who’s covered?

- Veterans
- Reservists
- Guardsmen

</div>

### What kind of benefits can I get?

- Health care
- Compensation (payments)

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. 

**You can apply in 1 of 3 ways:**

- [Apply online at eBenefits](http://www.ebenefits.va.gov). Be sure to note that you’re applying for 1 or more of the presumed Camp Lejeune illnesses, and attach evidence (like a doctor’s report or medical test results),
**or**
- [Get help from an accredited representative, like a Veterans Service Officer (VSO)](/disability-benefits/apply/help/),
**or**
- [Get help at a VA regional benefit office](/facilities/)

**When you apply, you’ll also need to give us:**

- Your military records showing you served at Camp Lejeune or MCAS New River for at least 30 days from August 1953 through December 1987 while on active duty, or in the National Guard or Reserves,
**and**
- Evidence stating that you have one or more of the 8 illnesses on the presumptive conditions list (see above)


### Are Veterans and their family members covered for health care?

Yes. Veterans who served at Camp Lejeune or MCAS New River for at least 30 cumulative days from August 1953 through December 1987—and their family members—can get health care benefits. We may pay you back for your out-of-pocket health care costs that were related to any of these 15 conditions:

- Bladder cancer
- Breast cancer
- Esophageal cancer
- Female infertility
- Hepatic steatosis
- Kidney cancer
- Leukemia
- Lung cancer
- Miscarriage
- Multiple myeloma
- Myelodysplastic syndromes
- Neurobehavioral effects
- Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
- Renal toxicity
- Scleroderma

### How do I get these benefits as a family member?

You’ll need to apply for benefits.

**You can apply in 1 of 2 ways:**

-	[Fill out a Camp Lejeune Family Member Application (VA Form 10-10068) online](https://www.clfamilymembers.fsc.va.gov/Home/Index?ReturnUrl=%2FApp%2FStepApplicant), **or**

- [Download the Camp Lejeune Family Member Application (VA Form 10-10068)](https://www.clfamilymembers.fsc.va.gov/Home/DownloadForm/10-10068). 
<br>
Fax it to 1-512-460-5536, or mail it to:

<p class="va-address-block">
<b>Department of Veterans Affairs</b><br>
Financial Services Center<br>
PO Box 149200<br>
Austin, TX 78714-9200<br>
</p>

**When you apply, you'll also need to give us:**

- Proof of your relationship to the Veteran who served on active duty for at least 30 days at Camp Lejeune (like a marriage license or a birth certificate), **and**

- Proof that you lived at Camp Lejeune or MCAS New River for at least 30 days from August 1953 through December 1987 (like utility bills, base housing records, military orders, or tax forms), **and**

- Medical records that show you have one of the 15 conditions listed above, **and**

- [A Camp Lejeune Family Member Program Treating Physician Report (VA Form 10-10068b)](https://www.clfamilymembers.fsc.va.gov/Home/DownloadForm/10-10068b). Have your doctor fill out and sign this form before submitting.  

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### What was in the drinking water?

Two on-base water wells that were shut down in 1985 had these chemicals:

- Trichloroethylene (TCE)
- Perchloroethylene (PCE)
- Benzene
- Vinyl chloride
- Other compounds

</div>

Commit message:

Changing "other than dishonorable" language (#7699)
* Changing "other than dishonorable" language

* Other than dishonorable > without a dishonorable

* "Other than dishonorable" > "wasn't dishonorable"

* other than dishonorable > Didn't receive a

* other than dishonorable > didn't receive a

* Other than dishonorable > Didn't receive a

* other than dishonorable > didn't receive a

* other than dishonorable > didn't receive a

* pre-need "other than dishonorable" language

* register your business - other than dishonorable

* s-dvi - removed parentheses around "dishonorable"

* Camp Lejeune water - other than dishonorable

* what happens after rating-other than dishonorable

* ME review: education-career-counseling

* ME review: pre-need

* ME review: life ins s-dvi

* ME review: disability-conditions-camp-lejeune

* proofread fix

* proofread fix

content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/contaminated-drinking-water-at-camp-lejeune.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Contaminated Drinking Water at Camp Lejeune
source: http://benefits.va.gov/compensation/claims-postservice-exposures-camp_lejeune_water.asp
template: detail-page
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you served at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune or Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) New River in North Carolina, you may have had contact with contaminants in the drinking water there. Scientific and medical evidence has shown an association between exposure to these contaminants during military service and development of certain diseases later on. If you have qualifying service at Camp Lejeune and a current diagnosis of one of the conditions listed below, you may be able to get disability benefits.

</div>


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?


You may be able to get disability benefits if you served at Camp Lejeune or MCAS New River for at least 30 cumulative days from August 1953 through December 1987 and you meet both of the requirements listed below. 

**Both of these must be true. You:**

- Didn't receive a dishonorable discharge when you separated from the military, **and**
- Have a diagnosis of one or more of these presumptive conditions:

  - Adult leukemia
  - Aplastic anemia and other myelodysplastic syndromes
  - Bladder cancer
  - Kidney cancer
  - Liver cancer
  - Multiple myeloma
  - Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
  - Parkinson’s disease

### Who’s covered?

- Veterans
- Reservists
- Guardsmen

</div>

### What kind of benefits can I get?

- Health care
- Compensation (payments)

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. 

**You can apply in 1 of 3 ways:**

- [Apply online at eBenefits](http://www.ebenefits.va.gov). Be sure to note that you’re applying for 1 or more of the presumed Camp Lejeune illnesses, and attach evidence (like a doctor’s report or medical test results),
**or**
- [Get help from an accredited representative, like a Veterans Service Officer (VSO)](/disability-benefits/apply/help/),
**or**
- [Get help at a VA regional benefit office](/facilities/)

**When you apply, you’ll also need to give us:**

- Your military records showing you served at Camp Lejeune or MCAS New River for at least 30 days from August 1953 through December 1987 while on active duty, or in the National Guard or Reserves,
**and**
- Evidence stating that you have one or more of the 8 illnesses on the presumptive conditions list (see above)


### Are Veterans and their family members covered for health care?

Yes. Veterans who served at Camp Lejeune or MCAS New River for at least 30 cumulative days from August 1953 through December 1987—and their family members—can get health care benefits. We may pay you back for your out-of-pocket health care costs that were related to any of these 15 conditions:

- Bladder cancer
- Breast cancer
- Esophageal cancer
- Female infertility
- Hepatic steatosis
- Kidney cancer
- Leukemia
- Lung cancer
- Miscarriage
- Multiple myeloma
- Myelodysplastic syndromes
- Neurobehavioral effects
- Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
- Renal toxicity
- Scleroderma

### How do I get these benefits as a family member?

You’ll need to apply for benefits.

**You can apply in 1 of 2 ways:**

-	[Fill out a Camp Lejeune Family Member Application (VA Form 10-10068) online](https://www.clfamilymembers.fsc.va.gov/Home/Index?ReturnUrl=%2FApp%2FStepApplicant), **or**

- [Download the Camp Lejeune Family Member Application (VA Form 10-10068)](https://www.clfamilymembers.fsc.va.gov/Home/DownloadForm/10-10068). 
<br>
Fax it to 1-512-460-5536, or mail it to:

<p class="va-address-block">
<b>Department of Veterans Affairs</b><br>
Financial Services Center<br>
PO Box 149200<br>
Austin, TX 78714-9200<br>
</p>

**When you apply, you'll also need to give us:**

- Proof of your relationship to the Veteran who served on active duty for at least 30 days at Camp Lejeune (like a marriage license or a birth certificate), **and**

- Proof that you lived at Camp Lejeune or MCAS New River for at least 30 days from August 1953 through December 1987 (like utility bills, base housing records, military orders, or tax forms), **and**

- Medical records that show you have one of the 15 conditions listed above, **and**

- [A Camp Lejeune Family Member Program Treating Physician Report (VA Form 10-10068b)](https://www.clfamilymembers.fsc.va.gov/Home/DownloadForm/10-10068b). Have your doctor fill out and sign this form before submitting.  

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### What was in the drinking water?

Two on-base water wells that were shut down in 1985 had these chemicals:

- Trichloroethylene (TCE)
- Perchloroethylene (PCE)
- Benzene
- Vinyl chloride
- Other compounds

</div>
