content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/gulf-war-illness.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Gulf War Illness
concurrence: incomplete
source: http://www.benefits.va.gov/COMPENSATION/claims-postservice-gulfwar.asp
plainlanguage: 10-28-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Language Act
template: detail-page
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you served in the Southwest Asia theater of military operations, you may suffer from illnesses or other conditions related to service in this region. Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits.

[Learn about service in Afghanistan and Gulf War Illness](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/gulf-war-illness-from-service-in-afghanistan/).  

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get disability benefits if you served in the Southwest Asia theater of military operations during the Gulf War period, and you have 1 or more illnesses or other conditions related to service in this region. To get benefits: 

Your chronic illness or other condition must have:
-	Started while you were on active duty or before December 31, 2016, **and**
-	Caused you to be ill for at least 6 months, **and**
-	Qualified you for a disability rating of 10% or more, **and**
-	Not been caused by anything except your service in the Southwest Asia theater of operations, **and** 

You must have been discharged under conditions other than dishonorable and have a diagnosis of 1 or more of these conditions: 
- Functional gastrointestinal disorders
- Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
- Fibromyalgia
- Other undiagnosed illnesses, including but not limited to cardiovascular disease, muscle and joint pain, and headaches

##### Presumed disabilities
You can also get benefits if: 
- You have a presumed disability that appeared within 1 year of your date of separation, **and** 
- This presumed disability qualifies you for a disability rating of 10% or more

We consider these illnesses to be presumed disabilities: 
- Burcellosis
- Campylobacter jejuni
- Coxiella burnetii (Q fever)
- Nontyphoid Salmonella
- Shigella
- West Nile Virus

[Learn more about disabilities that appear within 1 year after discharge](/disability-benefits/apply/one-year/). <br>
[Learn more about presumed disabilities](/disability-benefits/eligibility/presumed-disability/).
<br>

### Who’s covered?

Veterans
</div>


### What kind of disability benefits can I get?

- Health care
- Compensation (payments)

-----

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. [Apply for disability benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

[Learn more about service in Southwest Asia](https://www.publichealth.va.gov/exposures/gulfwar/military-service.asp).

### What’s included in the Southwest Asia theater of military operations?
- Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia
- The neutral zone between Iraq and Saudi Arabia
- Bahrain, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.)
- Oman
- The Gulf of Aden and the Gulf of Oman
- The waters of the Persian Gulf, the Arabian Sea, and the Red Sea
- The airspace above these locations

### What if I need help filing my disability claim?

You can get help from a trained professional trusted to help with VA-related claims. [Get help filing your claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).

Commit message:

All of the following must be true

content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/gulf-war-illness.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Gulf War Illness
concurrence: incomplete
source: http://www.benefits.va.gov/COMPENSATION/claims-postservice-gulfwar.asp
plainlanguage: 10-28-16 certified in compliance with the Plain Language Act
template: detail-page
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you served in the Southwest Asia theater of military operations, you may suffer from illnesses or other conditions related to service in this region. Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits.

[Learn about service in Afghanistan and Gulf War Illness](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/gulf-war-illness-from-service-in-afghanistan/).  

</div>

<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get disability benefits if you served in the Southwest Asia theater of military operations during the Gulf War period, and you have 1 or more illnesses or other conditions related to service in this region. To get benefits: 

**All of the following must be true** for your chronic illness or other condition:
-	Started while you were on active duty or before December 31, 2016, **and**
-	Caused you to be ill for at least 6 months, **and**
-	Qualified you for a disability rating of 10% or more, **and**
-	Not been caused by anything except your service in the Southwest Asia theater of operations, **and** 

You must have been discharged under conditions other than dishonorable and have a diagnosis of **at least 1 of the following conditions**: 
- Functional gastrointestinal disorders
- Chronic Fatigue Syndrome
- Fibromyalgia
- Other undiagnosed illnesses, including but not limited to cardiovascular disease, muscle and joint pain, and headaches

##### Presumed disabilities
You can also get benefits if **both of the following are true for you**: 
- You have a presumed disability that appeared within 1 year of your date of separation, **and** 
- This presumed disability qualifies you for a disability rating of 10% or more

We consider these illnesses to be presumed disabilities: 
- Burcellosis
- Campylobacter jejuni
- Coxiella burnetii (Q fever)
- Nontyphoid Salmonella
- Shigella
- West Nile Virus

[Learn more about disabilities that appear within 1 year after discharge](/disability-benefits/apply/one-year/). <br>
[Learn more about presumed disabilities](/disability-benefits/eligibility/presumed-disability/).
<br>

### Who’s covered?

Veterans
</div>


### What kind of disability benefits can I get?

- Health care
- Compensation (payments)

-----

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. <br>
[Apply for disability benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

[Learn more about service in Southwest Asia](https://www.publichealth.va.gov/exposures/gulfwar/military-service.asp).

### What’s included in the Southwest Asia theater of military operations?
- Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia
- The neutral zone between Iraq and Saudi Arabia
- Bahrain, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.)
- Oman
- The Gulf of Aden and the Gulf of Oman
- The waters of the Persian Gulf, the Arabian Sea, and the Red Sea
- The airspace above these locations

### What if I need help filing my disability claim?

You can get help from a trained professional trusted to help with VA-related claims. <br>
[Get help filing your claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).
