content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/gulf-war-illness-from-service-in-afghanistan.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Gulf War Illness from Service in Afghanistan
concurrence: 
source: 
plainlanguage: 
template: detail-page
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you served in Afghanistan, you may suffer from illnesses or other conditions related to service in this region. Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits.

[Learn about service in the Southwest Asia theater of military operations and Gulf War Illness](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/gulf-war-illness/).

</div>


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get benefits if you served in Afghanistan and your chronic illness or other condition must have:
- Started while you were on active duty or after September 19, 2001, **and**
- Caused you to be ill for at least 6 months, **and**
- Qualified you for a disability rating of 10% or more, **and**
- Not been caused by anything except your service in Afghanistan, **and**

You must have been discharged under conditions other than dishonorable and have a diagnosis of 1 or more of these conditions:

-	Brucellosis
-	Campylobacter jejuni
-	Coxiella burnetii (Q fever)
-	Malaria*
-	Mycobacterium tuberculosis* 
-	Nontyphoid Salmonella
-	Shigella
-	Visceral leishmaniasis* 
- West Nile Virus 

*Indicates that there are exceptions to how we decide if these illnesses qualify you for benefits and these conditions may be covered even after a year has passed.

[Find out what other health risks may be connected to your service in Afghanistan](/health-care/health-conditions/conditions-related-to-service-era/operation-enduring-freedom/).

<br>

### Who’s covered?

Veterans
</div>


### What kind of disability benefits can I get?

- Health care
- Compensation (payments)

-----

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. [Apply for benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

### What if I need help filing my disability claim?

You can get help from a trained professional trusted to help with VA-related claims. [Get help filing your claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).

Commit message:

all of the following must be true

content/pages/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/gulf-war-illness-from-service-in-afghanistan.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Gulf War Illness from Service in Afghanistan
concurrence: 
source: 
plainlanguage: 
template: detail-page
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you served in Afghanistan, you may suffer from illnesses or other conditions related to service in this region. Find out if you can get disability compensation or benefits.

[Learn about service in the Southwest Asia theater of military operations and Gulf War Illness](/disability-benefits/conditions/exposure-to-hazardous-materials/gulf-war-illness/).

</div>


<div class="feature" markdown="1">

### Can I get disability benefits from VA?

You may be able to get benefits if you served in Afghanistan. And, **all of the following must be true** for your chronic illness or other condition:
- Started while you were on active duty or after September 19, 2001, **and**
- Caused you to be ill for at least 6 months, **and**
- Qualified you for a disability rating of 10% or more, **and**
- Not been caused by anything except your service in Afghanistan, **and**

You must have been discharged under conditions other than dishonorable and have a diagnosis of 1 or more of these conditions:

-	Brucellosis
-	Campylobacter jejuni
-	Coxiella burnetii (Q fever)
-	Malaria*
-	Mycobacterium tuberculosis* 
-	Nontyphoid Salmonella
-	Shigella
-	Visceral leishmaniasis* 
- West Nile Virus 

*Indicates that there are exceptions to how we decide if these illnesses qualify you for benefits and these conditions may be covered even after a year has passed.

[Find out what other health risks may be connected to your service in Afghanistan](/health-care/health-conditions/conditions-related-to-service-era/operation-enduring-freedom/).

<br>

### Who’s covered?

Veterans
</div>


### What kind of disability benefits can I get?

- Health care
- Compensation (payments)

-----

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits. <br>
[Apply for benefits](/disability-benefits/apply/).

### What if I need help filing my disability claim?

You can get help from a trained professional trusted to help with VA-related claims. <br>
[Get help filing your claim](/disability-benefits/apply/help/).
