content/pages/welcome-to-va.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Print Out Your VA Welcome Kit
display_title: Your VA Welcome Kit
order: 1
plainlanguage: 
template: detail-page
majorlinks:
  - heading: Explore Vets.gov to learn about your benefits
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/
      title: Disability Benefits
      description: Apply for disability compensation and other benefits for conditions related to your military service.
    - url: /health-care/
      title: Health Care Benefits
      description: Apply for VA health care, find out how to access services, and manage your health and benefits online.
    - url: /education/
      title: Education Benefits
      description: Apply for and manage benefits that help you pay for college and training programs.
    - url: /housing-assistance/
      title: Housing Assistance
      description: Find out if you qualify for a VA home loan. If you have a service-connected disability, find out if you qualify for a housing grant to help you live more independently.
    - url: /employment/
      title: Careers and Employment
      description: Find out if you're eligible for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) services, get support for your Veteran-owned small business, and access other resources to help build your career skills and find a job.
    - url: /life-insurance/
      title: Life Insurance
      description: Explore VA life insurance options, manage your policy online, and file claims.
    - url: /pension/
      title: Pension Benefits
      description: Apply for monthly pension benefits for wartime Veterans and survivors.
    - url: /burials-and-memorials/
      title: Burials and Memorials
      description: Get help planning a burial or memorial service, and find out how to get survivor and dependent benefits.
---
<div itemscope itemtype ="http://schema.org/HowTo">
<div class="va-introtext" itemprop="description">

Whether you're just getting out of the service or you've been a civilian for years now, the VA Welcome Kit can help guide you to the benefits and services you've earned.

Based on where you are in life, your VA benefits and services can support you in different ways. Keep your welcome kit handy so you can turn to it throughout your life—like when it’s time to go to school, get a job, buy a house, get health care, retire, or make plans for your care as you age.

Feel free to share this guide with friends or family members who need help with their benefits too.

[Download and print out your VA Welcome Kit](/WelcomeVA_Guide_print_version_final.pdf).

</div>

Commit message:

Color VA Welcome Kit (#7200)
* Color VA Welcome Kit

* Added link for color welcome kit

* Add files via upload

* Update welcome-to-va.md

* Update welcome-to-va.md

* Update welcome-to-va.md

* Update welcome-to-va.md

content/pages/welcome-to-va.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
title: Print Out Your VA Welcome Kit
display_title: Your VA Welcome Kit
order: 1
plainlanguage: 
template: detail-page
majorlinks:
  - heading: Explore Vets.gov to learn about your benefits
    links:
    - url: /disability-benefits/
      title: Disability Benefits
      description: Apply for disability compensation and other benefits for conditions related to your military service.
    - url: /health-care/
      title: Health Care Benefits
      description: Apply for VA health care, find out how to access services, and manage your health and benefits online.
    - url: /education/
      title: Education Benefits
      description: Apply for and manage benefits that help you pay for college and training programs.
    - url: /housing-assistance/
      title: Housing Assistance
      description: Find out if you qualify for a VA home loan. If you have a service-connected disability, find out if you qualify for a housing grant to help you live more independently.
    - url: /employment/
      title: Careers and Employment
      description: Find out if you're eligible for Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) services, get support for your Veteran-owned small business, and access other resources to help build your career skills and find a job.
    - url: /life-insurance/
      title: Life Insurance
      description: Explore VA life insurance options, manage your policy online, and file claims.
    - url: /pension/
      title: Pension Benefits
      description: Apply for monthly pension benefits for wartime Veterans and survivors.
    - url: /burials-and-memorials/
      title: Burials and Memorials
      description: Get help planning a burial or memorial service, and find out how to get survivor and dependent benefits.
---
<div itemscope itemtype ="http://schema.org/HowTo">
<div class="va-introtext" itemprop="description">

Whether you're just getting out of the service or you've been a civilian for years now, the VA Welcome Kit can help guide you to the benefits and services you've earned.

Based on where you are in life, your VA benefits and services can support you in different ways. Keep your welcome kit handy so you can turn to it throughout your life—like when it’s time to go to school, get a job, buy a house, get health care, retire, or make plans for your care as you age.

Feel free to share this guide with friends or family members who need help with their benefits too. Download your VA Welcome Kit and print out copies for yourself and others:

[Download your VA Welcome Kit in black and white](/WelcomeVA_Guide_print_version_final.pdf).

[Download your VA Welcome Kit in color](/va_welcomekit_color.pdf).

</div>
