# How Are URLs Created?

Understanding how content URLs are generated by Jekyll is critical to preventing build errors. Here's how it works.

- Everything but the [experience blog](https://www.vets.gov/experience/) is powered by a [Jekyll collection](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/collections/)
- Jekyll collections are directories/folders that begin with an underscore: for example `_vre`, `_education`, and `_playbook`. **IMPORTANT:** Not every folder in the repo that begins with an underscore is a collection.
- Collection URLs are configured by `_config.yml`
- Collection paths are based on the Markdown file paths. 
- Each Markdown file generates a corresponding directory and `index.html` file. For example: 
  - `_education/tools-programs.md` &rarr; `/education/tools-programs/index.html`
  - `_education/tools-programs.md` &rarr; `/education/tools-programs/index.html`
  - `_education/work-learn/non-traditional.md` &rarr; `_education/work-learn/non-traditional/index.html`
- Each output directory is also used to create a breadcrumb on that page. For example, `_vre/family/family-members.md` will create a breadcrumb with the following markup:
```
&lt;ul class="breadcrumbs" role="menubar" aria-label="Primary">
  &lt;li class="parent">&lt;a href="/vre/">VR&amp;E&lt;/a></li>
  &lt;li class="parent">&lt;a href="/vre/family/">Family&lt;/a>&lt;/li>
  &lt;li class="active">Family Members&lt;/li>
&lt;/ul>
```
And read _VR&E &gt; Family &gt; Family Members_. 

## IMPORTANT

_**Make sure that every collection sub-directory also has a Markdown file that shares its name.**_ Take the the `_employment/job-seekers/` directory as an example. It also has an `_employment/job-seekers.md` file. Each Markdown file in `_employment/job-seekers/` compiles to  `employment/jobs-seekers/name_of_markdown_file/index.html`, while `_employment/job-seekers.md` itself compiles to `employment/job-seekers/index.html`.

Failing to take the above step means that you could generate breadcrumbs to pages that do not exist. This can [cause your tests to fail](docs/WhyIsMyBuildBreaking.md).



