content/pages/life-insurance/options-and-eligibility/s-dvi.md, before:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Service-Disabled Veterans Life Insurance (S-DVI)
display_title: Service-Disabled Veterans (S-DVI)
concurrence: 
order: 5
relatedlinks:
  - heading: More information about your benefits
    links:
    - url: /life-insurance/manage-your-policy/
      title: Managing Your Policy
      description: Already have VA life insurance? Manage your policy online.
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you have a disability that we’ve concluded was caused—or made worse—by your active service, you may be able to get life insurance under Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance (S-DVI). Find out if you qualify—and how to manage your coverage.

</div>

<div class="feature">

### Can I apply for S-DVI? 

You can apply for S-DVI if you meet these 4 criteria:

- You were released from active duty under other than dishonorable conditions on or after April 25, 1951
- You were rated for a service-connected disability (even if only 0%)
- You’re in good health except for any service-connected conditions
- You apply within 2 years from the date we grant your new service-connected disability

**Note:** An increase of a rating you had before—or a rating of Individual Unemployability, meaning you can’t work—doesn’t qualify you for S-DVI.

<br>

### Can I get more life insurance coverage if I need it? 

If you carry the basic S-DVI coverage and become totally disabled and unable to work, you can apply to get up to $30,000 more in coverage. This is called Supplemental S-DVI coverage.

You may be able to get $30,000 of supplemental coverage if you qualify for a premiums waiver, and you:
- Apply for the coverage within 1 year from the date you get notice of the grant of waiver, **and**
- Are younger than age 65

[Learn more about premium waivers](/life-insurance/disabled-and-terminally-ill/#waiver).

<br>

#### Who’s covered?

Veterans

</div>

<br>

### What kind of life insurance benefits can I get with S-DVI?

- Up to $10,000 of coverage
- Up to $30,000 of supplemental coverage

<br>

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits in 1 of 2 ways:

 - [Apply for basic S-DVI online](https://www.insurance.va.gov/portal/), **or**

 - Fill out an Application for Service-Disabled Veterans Life Insurance (VA Form 29-4364). [Download VA Form 29-4364](https://benefits.va.gov/INSURANCE/forms/29-4364.pdf).
 
 Fax it to 1-888-748-5822, or mail it to: 

<p class="va-address-block">
  Department of Veterans Affairs<br>
  Regional Office and Insurance Center (RH)<br>
  PO Box 7208<br>
  Philadelphia, PA 19101<br>
</p> 

If you want to apply for Supplemental S-DVI, you must have already applied for and been granted a waiver of premiums. (See our information below about getting a waiver.) To apply for Supplemental S-DVI, file an Application for Supplemental Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance (VA Form 29-0188) or send a letter requesting this insurance over your signature. You must apply for the coverage within one year from the date you receive notice of the grant of waiver of premiums.

[Download VA Form 29-0188](https://benefits.va.gov/INSURANCE/forms/29-0188.pdf).

<br>

### How much will I pay for these benefits?

Your premium rate (the amount you’ll pay each month for your coverage) depends on:
-	Your age, **and**
-	The amount of insurance you want, **and**
- The coverage plan requested

See the premium rates and a description of the plan options. <br>
[Download Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance RH Information and Premium Rates (VA pamphlet 29-9)](https://benefits.va.gov/INSURANCE/forms/29-9.htm).

<br>

### Can I get a waiver so I don’t have to pay the premiums? 

Yes, in some cases. Under certain conditions, the basic S-DVI policy provides for a waiver of premiums for Veterans who are totally disabled. [Learn more about premium waivers](/life-insurance/disabled-and-terminally-ill/#waiver).

You must pay your premiums for Supplemental S-DVI.

<br>

### Where can I find more information?

[Read our insurance publications](https://www.benefits.va.gov/INSURANCE/ins_publications.asp).

-------------

### Veterans’ Mortgage Life Insurance (VMLI)

If you have a severe service-connected disability that we’ve concluded was caused—or made worse—by your service, you may be able to get Veterans’ Mortgage Life Insurance (VMLI). In the event of your death, this mortgage protection insurance can help your family pay off the home mortgage on a home that’s been adapted to meet your needs. 

To get VMLI, you’ll need to apply for our Specially Adapted Housing (SAH) Grant. The SAH grant can help you buy, build, or make changes (like installing ramps or widening doorways) to a home so you can live more independently. When you receive an SAH grant, your Loan Guaranty agent will tell you if you qualify for VMLI and will help you apply. <br>
[Find out if you qualify for an SAH grant—and how to apply](https://www.benefits.va.gov/homeloans/adaptedhousing.asp). <br>
[Find out if you qualify for VMLI—and how to apply](/life-insurance/options-and-eligibility/vmli/).

Commit message:

Content wip discharge link on eligibility pages (#7263)
* adding less than honorable question

* adding edits

* additional edits

* Update eligibility.md

* adding less than honorable question

* adding less than honorable question

* revising less than honorable question

* adding less than honorable question

* added br tag

* working on discharge link

* Update eligibility.md

* working on discharge content

* formatting

* working on discharge link

* Update eligibility.md

* Update eligibility.md

* Adding question re: mental health & mst services

* adding anchor links

* adding anchor link

* adding anchor link

* adding h4 tag

* updating discharge link language

* incorporating new discharge link language

* editing discharge wizard link

* editing discharge wizard link

* editing discharge wizard link

* Update eligibility.md

* adding discharge wizard link language

* editing discharge link language

* adding discharge link language

* adding discharge link language

* moving discharge question into blue box

* removing note re: health care

* coding tweaks

* fixing spacing

* editing dishonorable language

* Update eligibility.md

* minor copy tweak

* minor copy tweak

* minor copy tweak

* minor copy tweak

* minor copy tweak

* Update eligibility.md

* minor copy tweak

* minor copy tweak

* minor copy tweak

* Add break tag to disability elig

* disability tweak

* Add break tag to HC elig

* Add break tag to Edu elig

* Add break tag to Pension elig

* Add break tag to burials elig

* Add break tag to VR&E elig

* Added break tag to home loans elig

* Update eligibility.md

* Add break tag to life insurance s-dvi page

content/pages/life-insurance/options-and-eligibility/s-dvi.md, after:

---
layout: page-breadcrumbs.html
template: detail-page
title: Service-Disabled Veterans Life Insurance (S-DVI)
display_title: Service-Disabled Veterans (S-DVI)
concurrence: 
order: 5
relatedlinks:
  - heading: More information about your benefits
    links:
    - url: /life-insurance/manage-your-policy/
      title: Managing Your Policy
      description: Already have VA life insurance? Manage your policy online.
---

<div class="va-introtext">

If you have a disability that we’ve concluded was caused—or made worse—by your active service, you may be able to get life insurance under Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance (S-DVI). Find out if you qualify—and how to manage your coverage.

</div>

<div class="feature">

### Can I apply for S-DVI? 

You can apply for S-DVI if you meet these 4 criteria:

- You were released from active duty (and didn't receive a dishonorable discharge) on or after April 25, 1951
- You were rated for a service-connected disability (even if only 0%)
- You’re in good health except for any service-connected conditions
- You apply within 2 years from the date we grant your new service-connected disability

**Note:** An increase of a rating you had before—or a rating of Individual Unemployability, meaning you can’t work—doesn’t qualify you for S-DVI.

<br>

### Can I get more life insurance coverage if I need it? 

If you carry the basic S-DVI coverage and become totally disabled and unable to work, you can apply to get up to $30,000 more in coverage. This is called Supplemental S-DVI coverage.

You may be able to get $30,000 of supplemental coverage if you qualify for a premiums waiver, and you:
- Apply for the coverage within 1 year from the date you get notice of the grant of waiver, **and**
- Are younger than age 65

[Learn more about premium waivers](/life-insurance/disabled-and-terminally-ill/#waiver).

<br>

#### Who’s covered?

Veterans

<br>

### What should I do if I received an other than honorable, bad conduct, or dishonorable discharge?

If you've received one of these discharge statuses, you may not be eligible for VA benefits.

<br>

**There are 2 ways you can try to qualify:**

[Find out how to apply for a discharge upgrade](/discharge-upgrade-instructions/).<br/>
[Learn about the VA Character of Discharge review process](/discharge-upgrade-instructions/#other-options).


</div>

<br>

### What kind of life insurance benefits can I get with S-DVI?

- Up to $10,000 of coverage
- Up to $30,000 of supplemental coverage

<br>

### How do I get these benefits?

You’ll need to apply for benefits in 1 of 2 ways:

 - [Apply for basic S-DVI online](https://www.insurance.va.gov/portal/), **or**

 - Fill out an Application for Service-Disabled Veterans Life Insurance (VA Form 29-4364). [Download VA Form 29-4364](https://benefits.va.gov/INSURANCE/forms/29-4364.pdf).
 
 Fax it to 1-888-748-5822, or mail it to: 

<p class="va-address-block">
  Department of Veterans Affairs<br>
  Regional Office and Insurance Center (RH)<br>
  PO Box 7208<br>
  Philadelphia, PA 19101<br>
</p> 

If you want to apply for Supplemental S-DVI, you must have already applied for and been granted a waiver of premiums. (See our information below about getting a waiver.) To apply for Supplemental S-DVI, file an Application for Supplemental Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance (VA Form 29-0188) or send a letter requesting this insurance over your signature. You must apply for the coverage within one year from the date you receive notice of the grant of waiver of premiums.

[Download VA Form 29-0188](https://benefits.va.gov/INSURANCE/forms/29-0188.pdf).

<br>

### How much will I pay for these benefits?

Your premium rate (the amount you’ll pay each month for your coverage) depends on:
-	Your age, **and**
-	The amount of insurance you want, **and**
- The coverage plan requested

See the premium rates and a description of the plan options. <br>
[Download Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance RH Information and Premium Rates (VA pamphlet 29-9)](https://benefits.va.gov/INSURANCE/forms/29-9.htm).

<br>

### Can I get a waiver so I don’t have to pay the premiums? 

Yes, in some cases. Under certain conditions, the basic S-DVI policy provides for a waiver of premiums for Veterans who are totally disabled. [Learn more about premium waivers](/life-insurance/disabled-and-terminally-ill/#waiver).

You must pay your premiums for Supplemental S-DVI.

<br>

### Where can I find more information?

[Read our insurance publications](https://www.benefits.va.gov/INSURANCE/ins_publications.asp).

-------------

### Veterans’ Mortgage Life Insurance (VMLI)

If you have a severe service-connected disability that we’ve concluded was caused—or made worse—by your service, you may be able to get Veterans’ Mortgage Life Insurance (VMLI). In the event of your death, this mortgage protection insurance can help your family pay off the home mortgage on a home that’s been adapted to meet your needs. 

To get VMLI, you’ll need to apply for our Specially Adapted Housing (SAH) Grant. The SAH grant can help you buy, build, or make changes (like installing ramps or widening doorways) to a home so you can live more independently. When you receive an SAH grant, your Loan Guaranty agent will tell you if you qualify for VMLI and will help you apply. <br>
[Find out if you qualify for an SAH grant—and how to apply](https://www.benefits.va.gov/homeloans/adaptedhousing.asp). <br>
[Find out if you qualify for VMLI—and how to apply](/life-insurance/options-and-eligibility/vmli/).
